



<-opN iiuui . 1 "•:';i. I', 



THE HARVARD CLASSICS 
EDITED BY CHARLES W ELIOT LLD 



THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 

READER'S GUIDE 

INDEX TO THE FIRST LINES 

OF POEMS SONGS & CHORUSES 

HYMNS & PSALMS 

GENERAL INDEX 

CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

WITH A FRONTISPIECE 
VOLUME 50 




P F COLLIER & SON 
NEW YORK 



Copyright, 1910 
By p. F. Collier & Son 



Designed, Printed, and Bound at 

Clje Collier Pre£(£f, J^eto gork 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

The Editor's Introduction to The Harvard Classics... 3 

Reader's Guide to The Harvard Classics 17 

Class I A The History of Civilization 18 

B Religion and Philosophy 31 

C Education 41 

D Science 44 

E Politics 48 

F Voyages and Travels 52 

G Criticism of Literature and the Fine Arts 54 

Class H A Drama 61 

B Biography and Letters 64 

C Essays 66 

D Narrative Poetry and Prose Fiction 70 

An Index to the First Lines of Poems, Songs and 

Choruses, Hymns and Psalms 7;? 

General Index 129 

Chronological Index 447 



vol. L— HC QI) 



THE 
EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 

TO THE 
HARVARD CLASSICS 

MY PURPOSE in selecting The Harvard Clas- 
sics was to provide the literary materials 
from which a careful and persistent reader 
might gain a fair view of the progress of man observ- 
ing, recording, inventing, and imagining from the 
earliest historical times to the close of the nineteenth 
century. Within the limits of fifty volumes, contain- 
ing about 22,000 pages, I was to provide the means of 
obtaining such a knowledge of ancient and modern 
literature as seems essential to the twentieth century 
idea of a cultivated man. The best acquisition of a cul- 
tivated man is a liberal frame of mind or way of 
thinking; but there must be added to that possession 
acquaintance with the prodigious store of recorded 
discoveries, experiences, and reflections which human- 
ity in its intermittent and irregular progress from bar- 
barism to civilization has acquired and laid up. From 
that store I proposed to make such a selection as any 
intellectually ambitious American family might use 
to advantage, even if their early opportunities of edu- 
cation had been scanty. The purpose of The Harvard 

1 



2 THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 

Classics IS, therefore, one very different from that of 
the many collections in which the editor's aim has 
been to select the hundred or the fifty best books in 
the world; it is nothing less than the purpose to pre- 
sent so ample and characteristic a record of the stream 
of the world's thought that the observant reader's mind 
shall be enriched, refined, and fertilized by it. 

With such objects in view it was essential that the 
whole series should be in the English language; and 
this limitation to English necessitated the free use of 
translations, in spite of the fact that it is impossible 
to reproduce perfectly in a translation the style and 
flavor of the original. The reader of this collection 
must not imagine that he can find in an English trans- 
lation of Homer, Dante, Cervantes, or Goethe, all the 
beauty and charm of the original. Nevertheless, trans- 
lations can yield much genuine cultivation to the student 
who attends to the substance of the author's thought, 
although he knows all the time that he is missing some 
of the elegance and beauty of the original form. Since 
it is impossible to give in translation the rhythm and 
sweetness of poetry — and particularly of lyric poetry — 
far the larger part of the poetry in The Harvard Clas- 
sics will be found to be poetry which was written in 
English. 

While with very few exceptions every piece of writ- 
ing included in the series is complete in itself — that is, 
is a whole book, narrative, document, essay, or poem — 
there are many volumes which are made up of numer- 
ous short, though complete, works. Thus, three vol- 
umes contain an anthology of English poetry compris- 
ing specimens of the work of over two hundred writers. 
There is also a volume of memorable prefaces, and an- 



THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 3 

Other of important American historical documents. 
Five volumes are made up of essays, representing sev- 
eral centuries and several nationalities. The principal 
subjects embraced in the series are history, biogra- 
phy, philosophy, religion, voyages and travels, natural 
science, government and politics, education, criticism, 
the drama, epic and lyric poetry, and prose fiction — in 
short, all the main subdivisions of literature. The 
principal literatures represented in the collection are 
those of Greece, Rome, France, Italy, Spain, England, 
Scotland, Germany, and the United States; but im- 
portant contributions have been drawn also from Chi- 
nese, Hindu, Hebrew, Arabian, Scandinavian, and Irish 
sources. Since the series is intended primarily for 
American readers, it contains a somewhat dispropor- 
tionate amount of English and American literature, and 
of documents and discussions relating to American 
history and to the development of American social 
and political ideas. 

Chronologically considered, the series begins with 
portions of the sacred books of the oldest religions, 
proceeds with specimens of the literature of Greece 
and Rome, then makes selections from the literature of 
the Middle Ages in the Orient, Italy, France, Scan- 
dinavia, Ireland, England, Germany, and the Latin 
Church, includes a considerable representation of the 
literature of the Renaissance in Italy, France, Ger- 
many, England, Scotland, and Spain, and, arriving at 
modern times, comprehends selections derived from 
Italy, three centuries of France, two centuries of Ger- 
many, three centuries of England, and something more 
than a century of the United States. 

Nothing has been included in the series which does 



4 THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 

not possess good literary form; but the collection il- 
lustrates the variations of literary form and taste from 
century to century, the wide separation in time of the 
recurrent climaxes in the various forms of literary ex- 
pression in both prose and verse, and the immense 
widening of the range and scope of both letters and 
science during the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nine- 
teenth centuries. 

At the very outset of the work unexpected difficulties 
arose, some of which, although almost mechanical, 
proved to be insurmountable. Many famous books 
were too long to be included in the set, that is, they 
would have taken a disproportionate number of the 
fifty volumes. Thus, the English Bible could not be 
included as a whole, because it was too long; and 
for the same reason only selections from Shakespeare, 
and the first part of **Don Quixote," could be in- 
cluded. Many famous and desirable books on history 
had to be excluded because of their length. The 
works of living authors were in general excluded, be- 
cause the verdict of the educated world has not yet 
been pronounced upon them. 

Finally, the whole of nineteenth century fiction, with 
two exceptions, was excluded; partly because of its 
great bulk, and partly because it is easily accessible. 
It proved to be possible, however, to represent by selec- 
tions complete in themselves the English Bible, Shake- 
speare, and some other works of the highest order. 
Some authors whose greatest works were too long to 
be included in the series could be represented by one 
or more of their shorter works. It was hard to make 
up an adequate representation of the scientific thought 
of the nineteenth century, because much of the most 



THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 5 

productive scientific thought has not yet been given a 
literary form. The discoverers' original papers on 
chemistry, physics, geology, and biology have usually 
been presented to some scientific society, and have 
naturally been expressed in technical language, or have 
been filled with details indispensable from the scientific 
point of view but not instructive for the public in 
general. 

Although a good part of the reading provided in 
The Harvard Classics may fairly be called interesting, 
there are also volumes or portions of volumes which 
make hard reading, even for a practised student. In 
the literature of other days some of the topics treated 
are unfamiliar, and, moreover, the state of mind of 
the authors is apt to be strange to the present genera- 
tion. The sentiments and opinions these authors ex- 
press are frequently not acceptable to present-day 
readers, who have to be often saying to themselves: 
"This is not true, or not correct, or not in accordance 
with our beliefs.'' It is, however, precisely this en- 
counter with the mental states of other generations 
which enlarges the outlook and sympathies of the 
cultivated man, and persuades him of the upward tend- 
ency of the human race. The Harvard Classics, as a 
whole, require close attention and a resolute spirit on 
the part of the reader. Nevertheless large p>arts of the 
collection were undoubtedly composed just to give de- 
light, or to show people how to win rational pleasures. 
Thus, the real values of almost all the tales, dramas, 
fiction, and poetry in the series are esthetic, not di- 
dactic, values. The interested reader ought to gain 
from them enjoyment and new power to enjoy. 

There is no mode of using The Harvard Qassics 



6 THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 

which can be recommended as the best for all readers. 
Every student who proposes to master the series must 
choose his own way through it. Some readers may be 
inclined to follow the chronological order; but shall 
they begin with the oldest book and read down through 
the centuries, or begin with the youngest and read 
backward? Another method would be to read by 
subjects, and under each subject chronologically. A 
good field for this method is the collection of voyages 
and travels. There is also merit in the chronological 
order in reading the documents taken from the sacred 
books of the world. Still another method is that of com- 
parison or of contrast. The collection gives many op- 
portunities of comparing the views of contemporaneous 
writers on the same subject, and also of contrasting 
the prevailing opinions in different nations or different 
social states at the same epoch. In government and 
politics, for example, the collection supplies much ma- 
terial for comparing the opinions of writers nearly 
contemporary but of different nationality, and for con- 
trasting the different social states at the same epoch 
in nations not far apart geographically, but distinct as 
regards their history, traditions, and habits. 

Another way of dealing with the collection would 
be to read first an essay or a group of essays on re- 
lated subjects, and then to search through the collection 
to discover all the material it contains within the field 
of that essay or group of essays. The essays in the ^ 
collection are numerous, and deal with a great variety 
of topics both old and new. Whoever should follow 
the various leadings of the essays in the collection 
would ultimately cover far the greater part of the 
fifty volumes. 



THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 7 

The biographies, letters, and prefaces contained in 
the collection will also afford much good guidance to 
other material. The student who likes the comparative 
method will naturally read consecutively all the dramas 
the collection contains; and it will not make much dif- 
ference at which chronological end he begins, for some 
persons find the climax of drama in Shakespeare, but 
others in the Greek tragedies. 

The anthology of English poetry is one of the most 
important parts of the collection, in respect to its func- 
tion of providing reading competent to impart liberal 
culture to a devoted reader ; but those volumes should 
not be read in course, but rather by authors, and a 
little at a time. The poems of John Milton and Robert 
Burns are given in full; because the works of these 
two very unlike poets contain social, religious, and 
governmental teachings of vital concern for modern 
democracies. Milton was the great poet of civil and 
religious liberty, Puritanism, and the English Com- 
monwealth, and Burns was the great poet of democracy. 
The two together cover the fundamental principles 
of free government, education, and democratic social 
structure, and will serve as guides to much good read- 
ing on those subjects provided in the collection. The 
poetry contained in The Harvard Classics from Homer 
to Tennyson will by itself give any appreciative reader 
a vivid conception of the permanent, elemental senti- 
ments and passions of mankind, and of the gradually 
developed ethical means of purifying those sentiments 
and controlling those passions. 

In order to make the best use of The Harvard 
Classics it will be desirable for the young reader to 
reread those volumes or passages which he finds most 



8 THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 

interesting*, and to commit to memory many of the 
pieces of poetry which stir or uplift him. It is a 
source of exquisite and enduring delight to have one's 
mind stored with many melodious expressions of high 
thoughts and beautiful imagery. 

I hope that many readers who are obliged to give 
eight or ten hours a day to the labors through which 
they earn their livelihood will use The Harvard Clas- 
sics, and particularly young men and women whose 
early education was cut short, and who must therefore 
reach the standing of a cultivated man or woman 
through the pleasurable devotion of a few minutes a 
day through many years to the reading of good 
literature. 

The main function of the collection should be to 
develop and foster in many thousands of people a 
taste for serious reading of the highest quality, out- 
side of The Harvard Classics as well as within them. 

It remains to describe the manner in which The 
Harvard Classics have been made up. I had more 
than once stated in public that in my opinion a five- 
foot shelf would hold books enough to give in the 
course of years a good substitute for a liberal education 
in youth to any one who would read them with de- 
votion, even if he could spare but fifteen minutes a day 
for reading. Rather more than a year ago the firm 
of P. F. Collier & Son proposed that I undertake to 
make a selection of fifty volumes, containing from 
four hundred to four hundred and fifty pages each, 
which would approximately fill my five-foot shelf, and 
be well adapted to accomplish the educational object 
I had in mind. 

I was invited to take the entire responsibility of mak 



THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 9 

ing the selection, and was to be provided with a com- 
petent assistant of my own choice. In February, 1909, 
I accepted the proposal of the publishers, and secured 
the services of Dr. William A. Neilson, Professor of 
English in Harvard University, as my assistant. I 
decided what should be included, and what should be 
excluded. Professor Neilson wrote all the intro- 
ductions and notes, made the choice among different 
editions of the same work, and offered many sug- 
gestions concerning available material. It also fell 
to him to make all the computations needed to decide 
the question whether a work desired was too long to 
be included. The most arduous part of his work was 
the final making up of the composite volumes from 
available material which had commended itself to us 
both. 

It would have been impossible to perform the task 
satisfactorily if the treasures of the general library and 
of the department libraries of Harvard University 
had not been at our disposal. The range of the topics 
in the series was so wide, and the number of languages 
in which the desired books were originally written so 
great, that the advice of specialists, each in some por- 
tion of the field, had frequently to be sought. We 
obtained much valuable advice of this sort from 
scholarly friends and neighbors. 

We are under obligations to the following Harvard 
professors and instructors, whose advice we obtained 
,on questions connected with their several specialties: 

Crawford Howell Toy, Hancock Professor of He- 
brew; George Herbert Palmer, Alford Professor of 
Natural Religion; William James, Professor of Phi- 



10 THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 

losophy; William Morris Davis, Sturgis-Hooper Pro- 
fessor of Geology; Ephraim Emerton, Winn Professor 
of Ecclesiastical History; Charles Rockwell Lanman, 
Wales Professor of Sanscrit; Edward Laurens Mark, 
Hersey Professor of Anatomy; George Foot Moore, 
Frothingham Professor of the History of Religion; 
Edward Stevens Sheldon, Professor of Romance Phi- 
lology; Horatio Stevens White, Professor of German; 
Josiah Royce, Professor of the History of Philosophy; 
Harold Clarence Ernst, Professor of Bacteriology; 
Herbert Weir Smyth, Eliot Professor of Greek Litera- 
ture; Frank William Taussig, Henry Lee Professor 
of Economics; Albert Bushnell Hart, Professor of 
History; Morris Hicky Morgan, Professor of Clas- 
sical Philology; Theobald Smith, George Fabyan Pro- 
fessor of Comparative Patholo'gy; Albert Andrew 
Howard, Pope Professor of Latin; George Lyman 
Kittredge, Professor of English; Samuel Williston, 
Weld Professor of Law; Charles Hall Grandgent, 
Professor of Romance Languages; Hugo Miinster- 
berg, Professor of Psychology; Leo Wiener, As- 
sistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Litera- 
tures; Heinrich Conrad Bierwirth, Assistant Profes- 
sor of German; Theodore William Richards, Pro- 
fessor of Chemistry; George Pierce Baker, Professor 
of English; James Haughton Woods, Assistant Pro- 
fessor of Philosophy; Irving Babbitt, Assistant Pro- 
fessor of French ; Charles Jesse Bullock, Professor of 
Economics; Edwin Francis Gay, Professor of Eco- 
nomics; Charles Burton Gulick, Professor of Greek; 
William Zebina Ripley, Professor of Political Ecoin- 
omy; Thomas Nixon Carver, David A. Wells Profes- 
sor of Political Economy; William Guild Howard, 



THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 11 

Assistant Professor of German ; Fred Norris Robinson, 
Professor of English ; Charles H. C. Wright, Assistant 
Professor of French; William Rosenzweig Arnold, 
Andover Professor of the Hebrew Language and Lit- 
erature; John Albrecht Walz, Professor of the Ger- 
man Language and Literature ; Jeremiah D. M. Ford, 
Smith Professor of the French and Spanish Lan- 
guages; Edward Kennard Rand, Professor of Latin; 
Oliver M. W. Sprague, Assistant Professor of Bank- 
ing and Finance; Jay Backus Woodworth, As- 
sistant Professor of Geology; George Henry Chase, 
Assistant Professor of Classical Archaeology; William 
Scott Ferguson, Assistant Professor of History: 
Roger Bigelow Merriman, Assistant Professor of 
History; Ralph Barton Perry, Assistant Professor of 
Philosophy; Louis Allard, Instructor in French; Har- 
old de Wolf Fuller, Instructor in Comparative Litera- 
ture ; Lawrence Joseph Henderson, Assistant Professor 
of Biological Chemistry; F. W. C. Hersey, Instructor 
in English ; F. W. C. Lieder, Instructor in German ; C. 
R. Post, Instructor in Romance Languages; R. W. 
Pettengill, Instructor in German; H. W. L. Dana, 
Assistant in English. 

Many other scholars answered sj>ecific questions 
which we laid before them, among whom should be 
mentioned : 

Jefferson Butler Fletcher, Professor of Comparative 
Literature, Columbia University; A. A. Young, Pro- 
fessor of Economics, Leland Stanford Jr. University ; 
G. R. Noyes, Assistant Professor of Slavic, Univer- 
sity of California; Lucien Foulet Professor of 
French, University of California; Francis B. Gum- 
mere, Professor of English, Haverford College; 



19 THE EDITOR'S INTRODUCTION 

Curtis Hidden Page, Professor of English Literature, 
Northwestern University; William Draper Lewis, 
Dean of the Law Department, University of Penn- 
sylvania; James Ford Rhodes, LL.D, (Harvard), 
Historian; Henry Pickering Walcott, Chairman of 
the Massachusetts Board of Health; William Belmont 
Parker, New York; John A. Lester, Ph.D., the Hill 
School, Pennsylvania; Alfred Dwight Sheffield, Cam- 
bridge, Massachusetts. 

The stafif of the Harvard Library have also given 
valuable assistance. 

In illustrating the volumes with portraits and fac- 
similes the publishers are under great obligations to 
the following owners of valuable prints, manuscripts, 
and autograph letters, who kindly permitted the pub- 
lishers to use precious objects from their collections: 

J. Pierpont Morgan, Esq. ; R. H. Dana, Esq. ; Wym- 
berley Jones De Renne, Esq. ; Harvard University Li- 
brary; New York Public Library; Boston Public 
Library; Library of Congress; Library of the Met- 
ropolitan Museum of Art ; Fogg Art Museum of Har- 
vard University. 

The elaborate alphabetical index is intended to give 
any person who knows the art of using indexes or con- 
cordances, or will acquire it in this instance, immediate 
access to any author or any subject mentioned in the 
entire collection, and indeed to any passage in the 
fifty volumes to which the inquirer has a good clue. 
This full index should make The Harvard Classics 
convenient books of reference. 

March lo, igio. 




THE EDITOR'S 
SECOND INTRODUCTION 



IN seven years The Harvard Classics have demonstrated 
their fitness for the special work they were intended to 
do. They were to provide from famous literature, 
ancient and modern, an ample record of ''the stream of the 
world's thought"; so that a careful reader of the collection 
might in the course of years attain the standing of a culti- 
vated man or woman, making up through this long course of 
reading any deficiencies which might have existed in the early 
education of the reader. I hoped, too, that in spite of the 
serious character of the entire collection, an interested and 
patient reader would gain from the collection much enjoy- 
ment and a new power to enjoy. 

The experience of seven years has proved that the sale of 
The Harvard Classics has been large and, on the whole, in- 
creasing in amount. 

Most owners of the set select occasional reading matter 
from it; but some have read the fifty volumes through, and 
a few have read the entire set through twice. I have been 
surprised to see how often I turn to the collection to enjoy 
pieces of permanent literature, in contrast with the mass of 
ephemeral reading matter which I am obliged to go through. 
Many people might use it in this way to advantage. It has 
also turned out that the collection, through its excellent 
index, has value as a book of reference for the general 
reader, and can be especially helpful to teachers, journalists, 
and authors. 

In the original fifty volumes, for reasons which have 
turned out not to be of permanent effect, fiction in the modern 
sense was only slightly represented. To-day a supplement of 
twenty volumes of modern fiction — The Harvard Classics 
Shelf of Fiction — provides an ample representation of that 
new force in the world which the modern historical romance, 
the novel, and the short story exert. With this supplement 
The Harvard Classics may fairly be said to provide a per- 
manent record in high literary form of the powers and 
achievements of "man thinking" down to the end of the 

13 



14 THE EDITOR^S SECOND INTRODUCTION' 

nineteenth century, sufficiently comprehensive to illustrate 
well the chief powers and achievements of the race. 

The last half of the nineteenth century and the opening of 
the twentieth show a strong tendency to discard the study of 
the Greek and Latin languages as an indispensable part of 
American secondary and higher education. This study is to 
be replaced in part by the study of modern languages, which 
have many uses in the literary, scientific, and business life of 
to-day. It is the confident belief of the educational reformers 
that young people brought up in this new way need not lose 
the substantial values of ancient thought; because they can 
get them through translations. The Harvard Classics con- 
tain six and a half volumes of choice material for this 
purpose. The collection contains also three volumes and two 
half volumes of famous wTitings belonging to the Middle 
Ages, writings, which can only be made known to the present 
generations through translations. The reader who makes 
himself familiar with these ten volumes and a half, with the 
Confessions of St. Augustine, and with the two volumes of 
Sacred Writings, may feel sure that he has followed the 
course of the best thinking of mankind down to the Italian 
Renaissance. 

From these volumes, the thorough reader may learn 
valuable lessons in comparative literature. He can see how 
various the contributions of the different languages and 
epochs have been ; and he will inevitably come to the con- 
clusion that striking national differences in this respect ought 
in the interest of mankind to be perpetuated and developed, 
and not obliterated, averaged, or harrowed down. The com- 
parative method has in the study of literature a value similar 
to that it has recently exhibited in the study of art, govern- 
ment, science, and religion. 

One may hope that the collection will endure for some 
decades to come, not only as a monument or milestone, but 
also as an active force toward the sound mental equipment 
of American reading people, both the young and the mature. 



February 7, 1917 



QlixhSju 



LIST OF VOLUME NUMBERS 

AS DESIGNATED IN THE FOLLOWING INDEXES 



Volume I 

Volume II 
Volume III 
Volume IV 

Volume V 
Volume VI 
Volume VII 

Volume VIII 
Volume IX 

Volume X 
Volume XI 
Volume XII 
Volume XIII 
Volume XIV 
Volume XV 

Volume XVI 
Volume XVII 

Volume XVIII 
Volume XIX 

Volume XX 
Volume XXI 
Volume XXII 



Benjamin Franklin, John Woolman, 
William Penn 

Plato, Epictetus, Marcus Aurelius 

Bacon, Milton's Prose, Thomas Browne 

Complete Poems in English, Milton 

Essays and English Traits, Emerson 

Poems and Songs, Burns 

The Confessions of St. Augustine, The 
Imitation of Christ 

Nine Greek Dramas 

Letters and Treatises of Cicero and 
Pliny 

Wealth of Nations, Adam Smith 

Origin of Species, Darwin 

Plutarch's Lives 

^neid, Virgil 

Don Quixote, Part I, Cervantes 

Pilgrim's Progress, Donne and Herbert, 
Walton 

The Thousand and One Nights 

Folk-Lore and Fable, -^sop, Grimm, 
Andersen 

Modern English Drama 

Faust, Egmont, etc., Goethe, Doctor 
Faustus, Marlowe 

The Divine Comedy, Dante 

I Promessi Sposi, Manzoni 

The Odyssey, Homer 
15 



16 



LIST OF VOLUME NUMBERS 



Volume XXIII 


Two Years Before the Mast, Dana 


Volume XXIV 


On the Sublime, French Revolu- 




tion, etc., Burke 


Volume XXV 


J. S. Mill and Thomas Carlyle 


Volume XXVI 


Continental Drama 


Volume XXVII 


English Essays, Sidney to Ma- 




caulay 


Volume XXVIII 


Essays, English and American 


Volume XXIX 


Voyage of the Beagle, Darwin 


Volume XXX 


Faraday, Helmholtz, Kelvin, New- 




comb, etc. 


Volume XXXI 


Autobiography, Cellini 


Volume XXXII 


Montaigne, Sainte-Beuve, Renan, 


Volume XXXIII 


Voyages and Travels 


Volume XXXIV 


Descartes, Voltaire, Rousseau, 




Hobbes 


Volume XXXV 


Froissart, Malory, Holinshed 


Volume XXXVI 


Machiavelli, More, Luther 


Volume XXXVII 


Locke, Berkeley, Hume 


Volume XXXVIII 


Harvey, Jenner, Lister, Pasteur 


Volume XXXIX 


Famous Prefaces 


Volume XL 


English Poetry, i 


Volume XLI 


English Poetry, 2 


Volume XLII 


English Poetry, 3 


Volume XLIII 


American Historical Documents 


Volume XLIV 


Sacred Writings, i 


Volume XLV 


Sacred Writings, 2 


Volume XLVI 


Elizabethan Drama, i 


Volume XLVII 


Elizabethan Drama, 2 


Volume XLVIII 


Thoughts and Minor Works, Pascal 


Volume XLIX 


Epic and Saga 


Volume L 


Introduction, Reader's Guide, In- 




dexes 



READER'S GUIDE TO THE 
HARVARD CLASSICS 

THE following lists have been prepared in order 
to enable the reader more easily to choose and 
arrange for himself such courses of study 
as have been suggested in the Introduction. They fall 
into two classes, the first being selected with respect 
to subject-matter, as History, Philosophy, or Science; 
the second with respect to literary form, as the Drama 
or Essay. Within each group the arrangement is in 
general chronological, but this has been occasionally 
departed from when it seemed wise to introduce na- 
tional or geographical cross-divisions. While most 
of the volumes can be most profitably read in some 
chronological or other sequence, many others, such as 
the collections of English Poetry and of Essays, are 
equally suited for more desultory browsing. 

These lists are not intended to relieve the reader 
from the use of the General Index, which has pur- 
posely been made so ample that it is possible by its 
intelligent use to track almost any line of interest 
through the entire set of volumes. 



17 



CLASS I 
A 

THE 
HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION 

THE following list is by no means confined to 
works regarded by their authors as history, 
but includes letters, dramas, novels, and the 
like, which, by virtue of their character, period, or 
scene, throw light upon social and intellectual con- 
ditions, enriching and making vivid the picture of hu- 
man progress which is outlined in the more strictly 
historical narratives. 

Professor Freeman's essay, which is suggested as 
a general introduction to this divisio-n, deals in a 
highly illuminating fashion with the much misunder- 
stood term, ^'Race'' ; and by definition and illustration 
brings out the elements according to which the his- 
torian and the anthropologist determine the relation- 
ships among the families of mankind. 

The oldest civilization with which the ordinary reader 
has any acquaintance is that of Egypt, and his knowl- 
edge of this is usually confined to the dealings of the 
Egyptians with the Israelites, as narrated in the first 
.books of the Old Testament. The account of Egypt 
by Herodotus gives a picture of this people from the 
point of view of a Greek, and is made entertaining by 
the skill of one of the best story-tellers in the world. 
A glimpse of life in the days of the patriarchs, in the 
countries surrounding Palestine, is given in the nar- 

18 



THE HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION IS 

rative portions of "The Book of Job/' where Job him- 
self is concerned as a powerful and wealthy sheik. 

With Homer we come to the civilization which, 
more than any other, has affected the culture of 
modern Europe. The wanderings of Odysseus in the 
^'Odyssey" and the account of the fall of Troy in 
the '*^neid" contain, of course, a large mythical ele- 
ment; but they leave, nevertheless, a vivid picture 
which must represent with much essential truth the 
way of life of the Greeks before the historic period. 
The two poems by Tennyson named here were sug- 
gested by the '^Odyssey," and express with remarkable 
power and beauty the modern poet's conception of the 
Greek hero's character, and the mood of reaction from 
the life of effort and suffering. The pieces by Words- 
worth and Landor are modern retellings of stories 
from the same treasure-house from which the Greek 
tragedians drew the plots of those great dramas which, 
with the dialogues of Plato, represent the height of 
intellectual achievement in the ancient world. The five 
Greek lives by Plutarch give portraits of a group of the 
most distinguished men of affairs in the same period. 

Plutarch again, in his *Xives" of famous Romans, 
brings before us several of the greatest figures of 
Republican Rome. His main interest was in person- 
ality; but incidentally he gives much information as 
to the political history of this period. For the years 
immediately preceding the end of the Republic, the 
"Letters" of Cicero give a detailed picture of Roman 
politics from the inside. In spite of the frequent al- 
lusions to events and persons now known only to the 
scholar, the general reader may easily find interest 
in the similarities between the political methods of 



20 READER'S GUIDE 

antiquity and those of our own day. Dryden's "All 
for Love'' is a thorough making-over of Shakespeare's 
"Antony and Cleopatra," w^hich in turn is based on 
Plutarch's "Life of Antony." It is interesting, not 
only as an excellent example of Dryden's work as a 
dramatist, but as affording^ along with Shakespeare's 
tragedy, a suggestive study of two of the most pic- 
turesque figures of ancient times. From the Alex- 
andrian scenes one can gain an impression of the 
luxury that was beginning to sap the foundations of 
the old Roman virtue. 

Pliny's "Letters" picture the life of a cultivated 
Roman under the Empire. Among them, special in- 
terest attaches to that giving a graphic account of 
the eruption of Vesuvius which destroyed Pompeii, 
and in which the elder Pliny perished, and to those 
in which Pliny as proconsul consults with the Em- 
I>eror Trajan about the policy of persecuting the early 
Christians. The story of the "^neid" does not deal 
with this period; but its patriotic purpose makes it 
important in judging the spirit of the times. Tenny- 
son's tribute to Virgil is a superb appreciation of the 
literary quality of the Roman writer, with whom the 
Englishman had many points of kinship. In the writ- 
ings of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius and the slave 
Epictetus, the moral philosophy of paganism reaches 
its highest level. 

The condition of our Teutonic ancestors during the 
period of Roman supremacy is admirably described by 
the historian Tacitus in his account of Germany. The 
description is external, but well-informed, and is the 
work of an acute and highly trained observer of 
society and politics. More intimate are the poems that 



THE HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION 21 

have come down from the early period of Germanic 
culture, represented here by the Old English ''Beo- 
wulf/' and the Icelandic ''Song of the Volsungs." 
These stories deal with incidents and personages whose 
historic bases belong to continental Europe, though 
the earliest extant literary poems of both happen to 
be insular. "Beowulf" is the more circumstantial as 
a picture of life and manners; the Volsung story in 
its various versions, through the "Nibelungenlied'' 
down to Wagner's operas, has made a more profound 
appeal to the imagination. The splendid though gro- 
tesque specimen of Irish saga-writing given in "The 
Destruction of Da Derga's Hostel" belongs to nearly 
the same period. In the case of all three, the material 
represents a stage of culture considerably earlier than 
the date of writing, and still essentially pagan. 

The books from the New Testament are selected to 
give the story of the founding of Christianity; St. 
Augustine's "Confessions" exhibit the development, 
after a few centuries, of Christian doctrine. Christian 
standards of conduct, and Christian ways of thinking; 
while the Hymns of the Early Church, East and 
West, represent the lyrical expression of the devo- 
tional feeling of the young religion. 

While Christianity was gradually overcoming the 
paganism of Europe, Mohammed appeared in Arabia; 
and from the chapters of the "Koran," which he 
claimed to have received by inspiration, w^e can form 
an idea of the teaching which, with the aid of the 
sword, so rapidly conquered the East. "The Arabian 
Nights" are Mohammedan in background, the multi- 
plicity of angels and genii which the Prophet admitted 
into his system playing a large part in the meclianism 



22 READER'S GUIDE 

of the tales. The representation of the social life of 
the East is, however, more important than the re- 
ligious element in these. Omar Khayyam, is the free- 
thinking philosopher in a Mohammedan society, and 
his quatrains are given here in the free paraphrase of 
Fitzgerald, a work which ranks higher as an original 
poem than as an exact translation. 

The Middle Ages denotes a period with somewhat 
vague boundaries; and some of the books already 
touched on might well be placed within it. Here it 
includes representative literary products of Western 
Europe from the time of Charlemagne to the middle 
of the fifteenth century. 'The Song of Roland'' be- 
gins, on a slight historical foundation, the great struc- 
ture of French epic, and is itself a simple and vigorous 
celebration of heroic loyalty. In the passages from 
the Norse *'Saga of Eric the Red'' which describes the 
discovery of America by Icelanders about looo A. D., 
we get a glimpse of the hardy life of the Vikings. In 
''The Divine Comedy" Dante summed up the es- 
sential characteristics of the spiritual and intellectual 
life of the Middle Ages, and by his emotional intensity 
and the extraordinary distinctness of his imaginative 
vision gave his result an artistic preeminence that 
makes it the supreme creation of the epoch. 

The pageantry and pomp of the military and court 
life of this age are seen at their best in the pages of 
Froissart; and in Marlowe's "Edward the Second" 
a dramatic genius of the next period interprets a 
typical tragedy of the medieval contest between king 
and nobles. Drayton, Marlowe's contemporary, cele- 
brates, in one of our greatest war-songs, the victory 
of Agincourt. In contrast with these pictures of the 



THE HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION 23 

more exciting sides of medieval life is the exquisite 
series of portraits of typical English men and women 
which give Chaucer's 'Trologue'' its unique place 
among the works, literary and historical, of the time. 

Malory, Tennyson, and Morris deal with parts of 
the great Arthurian legend, the most wide-spread and 
characteristic of the themes which entranced the im- 
agination of the Middle Ages, and one which con- 
tinues to attract the modern writer. Romantic in tone, 
historical in incident, Rossetti's poem on the death of 
James I. of Scots is one of the most successful modern 
attempts to render a medieval theme in ballad form; 
yet its essential literary quality will be apparent at once 
when it is compared with the popular tone of the 
genuine traditional ballads. 

Our list of the productions of the Renaissance natur- 
ally begins with Italy, the country in which the great 
revival of interest in pagan antiquity first showed it- 
self, and from which came in large measure the im- 
pulse to throw off the traditional bonds that had fet- 
tered the human spirit in the Middle Ages, and to 
seek a fuller scope for individual development. Mach- 
iavelli and Cellini represent respectively the political 
and the artistic sides of the Italy of this period ; and 
the impression to be derived from them may be made 
more distinct by Browning's pictures of the scholar, 
the painter, and the worldly ecclesiastic, and by Web- 
ster's and Shelley's dramas, with their lurid light on 
the passion and crime which reigned in much of the 
courtly life of the time. A pleasing contrast is af- 
forded by Roper's Life of the saintly Sir Thomas 
More, and by Morels own ^^Utopia," with its vision 
of a perfect society. Later in the sixteenth century 



24 READER'S GUIDE 

came the struggle of Spain to subjugate the Nether- 
lands, an incident of which forms the plot of Goethe's 
''Egmont/' Sir Walter Raleigh, compiling in his 
prison his vast ''History of the World," prefixed to 
it a long preface which gives us a most interesting 
conception of the attitude of an Englishman who had 
lived and thought not only upon the history of past 
times, but upon the whole problem of man's relation to 
God and the universe. About the same time, in Spain, 
the great novelist, Cervantes, was showing in his mas- 
terpiece how quickly the world was passing from under 
the domination of the chivalrous ideals of the previous 
age. 

So far we have been enumerating documents repre- 
sentative of the secular Renaissance. But a religious 
revolution had also taken place, and in the works of 
Luther, of Calvin, and of Knox, we have a statement 
in the words of the leaders themselves of the funda- 
mental principles of the Protestant Reforiiiation. 

In Science also a new beginning had been made. In 
the ''Journeys" of Ambroise Pare we have, inciden- 
tally, a picture of the armies of the sixteenth century in 
the field, and also^ of more importance to posterity, the 
beginnings of a new and more humane surgery. Co- 
pernicus introduced his revolutionary theory by which 
the sun took the place of the earth as the center of our 
system, and Columbus, Vespucci, and the great English 
navigators opened up the Western world and circum- 
navigated the globe. 

In England itself this exploration of the West 
brought on the conflict with Spain celebrated with 
fiery patriotism in the poems by Drayton, Macaulay, 
and Tennyson. How Englishmen lived at home is told 



THE HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION 28 

in intimate detail in Harrison's *' Description," and 
more dramatically represented by Dekker, Jonson, and 
Beaumont ; while in Keats's lines we have a later poet 
harking back to those literary triumphs which are per- 
haps the most permanent of the achievements of the 
''spacious times of great Elizabeth/' 

In the seventeenth century we find ourselves in 
what may be regarded as modern times, though the 
picture of the plague in Manzoni's great novel still 
suggests a period far remote from modern science. 
In the *'Areopagitica," however, Milton is arguing 
for that freedom of the press which is a very living 
question in many modern states; and in the poems 
of Marvell and Scott we have echoes of the struggle 
for constitutional liberty through which modern 
Britain came into existence. Voltaire's ^'Letters" re- 
flect not only the impressions derived by an acute 
Frenchman from a visit to England, but describe 
many important phases of the life and thought of the 
eighteenth century. Burke's ''Reflections'' recall the 
excesses through which some of the things which Vol- 
taire envied the English were achieved by France ; and 
Goethe in his exquisite idyl, "Hermann and Dorothea,'* 
lets us hear the echoes of the great Revolution in the 
quiet Hfe of a German village. In Byron's famous 
lyric we have a lament over the spirit of liberty not 
yet reawakened in Greece. Throughout all these later 
pieces there appear, more or less distinctly, evidences 
of the gradual spread over the world of the struggle 
for freedom and equality. 

Of this struggle in America the records collected in 
the "American Historical Documents" and the other 
works here enumerated need no interpretation. 



26 



READER'S GUIDE 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Page 



Race and Language: 

Edward Augustus Freeman • • • • 

Ancient Egypt: 

Herodotus, Egypt 

The East in Patriarchal Times: 

The Book of Job 

Ancient Greece: Legendary 

Homer, the Odyssey 

Dramas of ^schylus 

Sophocles 

Euripides 

Fall of Troy, Virgil's ^neid, Book H 
Tennyson, Ulysses 

The Lotus-Eaters 
Landor, Death of Artemidora . 

Iphigeneia 

Wordsworth, Laodamia 

Ancient Greece: Historic 

Plato, The Apology of Socrates . . . 
Plutarch, Life of Pericles 

Life of Themistocles . 

Life of Aristides .... 

Life of Alcibiades .... 

Life of Demosthenes . 

Ancient Rome: Republican 

Plutarch, Life of Coriolanus .... 

Life of Cicero 

Cicero, Letters and Treatises . . . 
Plutarch, Life of Caesar 

Life of Antony 

Dryden, All for Love 



28 



33 



44 



235 



73 



22 


9 


8 


5 


8 


197 


8 


287 


13 


103 


42 


1007 


42 


1026 


41 


926 


41 


927 


41 


678 


2 


3 


12 


36 


12 


5 


12 


80 


12 


iro 


12 


197 


12 


152 


12 


225 


9 


7 


12 


274 


12 


334 


18 


21 



THE HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION 



71 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Page 



Ancient Rome: Imperial 

Pliny the Younger, Letters . 

Virgil, ^neid 

Tennyson, To Virgil .... 
Marcus Aurelius, Meditations 
Epictetus, Golden Thoughts . . 

Germanic Peoples in Primitive Times: 

Tacitus, Germany 

Song of the Volsungs .... 
Beowulf 

Ireland in Primitive Times: 

Destruction of Da Derga's Hostel 



The Early Christian Church: 

The Gospel according to Luke 
The Acts of the Apostles . 
The Epistles to the Corinthians 
St. Augustine, Confessions . 
Hymns of the Greek Church . 
Hymns of the Latin Church . 



The Mohammedan East: 

Koran 

The Arabian Nights 
Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam 

The Middle Ages: 

The Song of Roland . . 



Voyages to Vinland 

Dante, The Divine Comedy .... 
Marlowe, Edward the Second . . . 

Froissart, Chronicles 

Chaucer, Prologue to Canterbury Tales 

Drayton, Agincourt 

Malory, The Holy Grail 



9 
13 

2 
2 



49 
49 

49 



44 
44 
45 
7 
45 
45 



45 
16 

41 



49 
43 
20 

46 

35 
40 

40 

35 



195 

75 

1051 

193 
117 



95 

265 

5 



211 



357 
429 

501 

5 

553 

558 



885 

17 

970 



97 

5 

5 

5 

5 
II 

107 



28 



READER'S GUIDE 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



The Middle Ages : 

Tennyson, Morte d'Arthur 42 

Galahad 42 

William Morris, Defence of Guinevere . . 42 

Rossetti, The King's Tragedy 42 

A Gest of Robyn Hode 40 

Traditional Ballads, especially 40 

The Battle of Otterburn 40 

Chevy Chase 40 

Johnie Armstrong • . . 40 

Kinmont Willie ^ , 40 

The Renaissance: 

Machiavelli, The Prince 36 

Macaulay, Machiavelli 27 

Benvenuto Cellini, Autobiography .... 31 

Browning, A Grammarian's Funeral ... 42 

Andrea del Sarto 42 

The Bishop Orders his Tomb . . 42 

Webster, The Duchess of Malfi 47 

Shelley, The Cenci 18 

Sir Thomas More, Utopia 36 

Roper, Life of Sir T. More 36 

Goethe, Egmont 19 

Raleigh, Preface to History of the World . . 39 

Cervantes, Don Quixote 14 

Luther, Ninety-five Theses 36 

Address to the German Nobility . . 36 

Concerning Christian Liberty , . . 36 

Calvin, Dedication of the Institutes .... 39 
Knox, Preface to History of the Reformation 

in Scotland 39 

Pare, Journeys in Diverse Places .... 38 
Copernicus, Dedication of Revolutions of 

Heavenly Bodies .... 39 
Columbus, Letter Announcing Discovery of 

America 43 



THE HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION 



29 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Page 



The Renaissance: 

Amerigo Vespucci, Account of his First 

Voyage . . « 

Cabot, Discovery of North America . 

Sir H. Gilbert's Voyage to Newfoundland . 

Sir Francis Drake Revived 

Drake's Famous Voyage Round the World . 

Drake's Great Armada 

Raleigh, Discovery of Guiana 

Drayton, To the Virginian Voyage . . . . 

Macaulay, The Armada 

Tennyson, The Revenge 

Harrison, Elizabethan England 

Dekker, The Shoemaker's Holiday . . . . 

Jonson, The Alchemist 

Beaumont, Letter to Ben Jonson . . . . 
Keats, The Mermaid Tavern 

Modern Europe: 

Manzoni, I Promessi Sposi 

Milton, Areopagitica 

Marvell, Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's 

Return 

Scott, Here's a Health to King Charles . 

Bonnie Dundee 

Voltaire, Letters on the English .... 
Burke, Reflections on the French Revolution . 
Goethe, Hermann and Dorothea .... 
Byron, The Isles of Greece 



43 


29 


43 


47 


33 


271 


33 


133 


33 


207 


33 


237 


53 


321 


40 


230 


41 


940 


42 


1041 


35 


229 


47 


447 


47 


521 


40 


32S 


41 


898 



21 


7 


3 


193 


40 


381 


41 


773 


41 


770 


34 


65 


24 


151 


19 


335 


41 


S33 



(For the history of recent European thought, see 
under headings, ''Science, " ''Religion and Philoso- 
phy," "Politics/' "Education," and the various lit- 
erary types.) 



30 



READER'S GUIDE 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Page 



America : 

First Charter of Virginia 43 

And the later items in volume of American 

Historical Documents 43 

Franklin, Autobiography i 

John Woolman, Journal i 

Dana, Two Years before the Mast .... 23 

Bryant, The Death of Lincoln 42 

Emerson, Concord Hymn 42 

Boston Hymn 42 

Longfellow, Evangeline 42 

Paul Revere's Ride .... 42 

Whittier, Randolph of Roanoke 42 

Massachusetts to Virginia ... 42 

Barbara Frietchie 42 

Holmes, Old Ironsides 42 

Lowell, The Present Crisis 42 

Ode Recited at Harvard Commemora- 
tion 42 

Abraham Lincoln ^ 

Whitman, War Poems 42 

Pioneers 42 

Poems on Death of Lincoln ... 42 



51 



VOL. L — HC ( I ) 



B 

RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY 

IN THIS division are represented the sacred writ- 
ings of the chief religions of the world, and 
characteristic works of the most important phi- 
losophers, so far as these can be expected to be intel- 
ligible to readers without technical training in phi- 
losophy. Here, as elsewhere in The Harvard Classics, 
the interest and profit of the reader have been preferred 
to formal completeness; yet it has been possible to 
bring together a selection of the attempts of thinkers 
to solve the problems of life for twenty-five centuries, 
with surprisingly few important omissions. 

In I. A. we noted the historical interest of the nar- 
rative setting of "The Book of Job.'' The speeches 
themselves show the Hebrew mind wrestling with the 
problem of reconciling the justice of God with the mis- 
fortunes of the righteous. "Ecclesiastes" consists 
mainly of a collection of pungent and, for the most 
part, pessimistic comments on life, interspersed with 
passages of a more inspiring nature, which may be 
due to a different author. Both books are marvels of 
literary beauty. "The Psalms" gave utterance to the 
religious emotions of the people of Israel through 
many generations, and have appealed to the devout of 
races and periods far beyond the limits of their origin. 

Plato is at once a philosopher and a great man of 

31 

VOL. L — HC (2) 



32 READER'S GUIDE 

letters: and the three dialogues given here not only 
present some of the main ideas about conduct and the 
future world which he received from Socrates or de- 
veloped himself, but also draw a distinct and attractive 
portrait of his master during- the closing scenes of his 
life. The plays of the Greek tragedians, though os- 
tensibly dramatic entertainments, deal profoundly and 
impressively with some of the vital questions of re- 
ligion, as these presented themselves to the Greek 
mind. 

In ]\Iarcus Aurelius and Epictetus we have the 
loftiest expression of the Stoic doctrine in its applica- 
tion to the conduct of life; and in the treatises of 
Cicero the w^orking philosophy of a great lawyer and 
jx^litician. 

The ''Sayings'' of Confucius, like these Roman writ- 
ings, are ethical rather than religious; and while to 
tlie \\>stern mind they appear curiously concerned with 
ceremonial, they still appeal to us through their note 
of aspiration toward a lofty and disinterested scheme 
of life. Equally remote in their religious and phil- 
osoi>hical background are the examples of Hindu and 
Buddhist teacliing, but here again there is much that 
is inspiring in the moral ideals. 

In the previous section, **The Gosi>el of Luke," '*The 
Acts of the AiK)Stles," and *'The Epistles to the Corin- 
thians'' \vere regarded as giving the history of the 
foundinof of the Christian Church. Here thev should 
be read as giving a statement of its principles as laid 
down by its Founder and His immediate followers. 
Its development after four centuries is showoi in the 
"Confessions" of one of the greatest of the Fathers: 
and the height of medieval devoutness is beautifully 



RELIGIOK AKD PHILOSOPHY 33 

exhibited in "The Imitation of Christ/' ascribed to 
Thomas a Kempis, one of the most widely circu- 
lated books in the history of literature- The Hymns 
of the Early Churches bring* out those features of 
Christian belief which obtained prominence in public 
worship. 

Mohammedanism, with its curious borrowings from 
Hebrew and Christian scripture and tradition, is more 
interesting as the religion of many millions of people 
than as a source of spiritual inspiration. An interesting 
comparison may be made between Chnar Kha}yam in 
his relation to Mohammedanism and the author of 
"Ecclesiastes'' in his relation to Judaism. 

With the Reformation opens a new chapter in the 
history of religion, and the figures of Luther, Calvin, 
and Knox appropriately represent militant Protestant- 
ism in Germany, Switzerland, and Scotland. Raleigh 
is a Protestant lajTnan, a man of action rather than a 
theologian or philosopher,yet his 'Treface" is a remark- 
ably enlightening presentation of the attitude of a de- 
tached thinker at the beginning" of the se^'enteenth cen- 
tur\'. His poems, with those of Southwell, Habing- 
ton, Rowlands, Herbert, Donne, Quarles, Vaughan, 
Crashaw, Drummond, Wotton, Watts, Addison, and 
Christopher Smart, and the collection of modem 
h}'mns, still further express, with varieties of em- 
phasis and shade of opinion, the more popular as- 
pects of modem Christianit}'. In Walton's "Lives" 
of George Herbert and John Donne, Christian ideals 
are exhibited in the history of two men of strongly 
marked character and loft}^ spirituality. Sir Thomas 
Browne was a member of the Church of England and 
a physician, and the splendid prose of his "Religio 



34 READER'S GUIDE 

Medici" conveys a quaint mixture of orthodoxy and 
independent thought. ^'The Pilgrim^s Progress" is the 
great popular presentation of Puritan theology in im- 
aginative form; and this theology is again the back- 
ground of the great religious lyrics and epics of John 
Milton. 

Roman Catholic thought on religion and life is 
brilliantly represented in the writings o-f Pascal, one 
of the most acute minds and most intensely religious 
spirits of his age. The ''Thoughts," collected and ar- 
ranged after his death, suffer from lack of sequence; 
but their fragmentary nature cannot disguise from the 
careful reader the astounding keenness of the intel- 
lect behind them. 

In the 'Truits of Solitude" of William Penn, and 
in John Woolman's ''Journal," we have a representa- 
tion of the views and ideals of the Quakers, who con- 
tributed so important a stream of spiritual influence 
to the Colonial life of America. 

Modern philosophy is often said to begin with 
Bacon, and, though the fresh attack upon the problems 
of the universe made in the seventeenth century can 
not be credited to any one person. Bacon as much as 
any has a right to be regarded as the herald of the 
new era. The prefatory documents listed here in- 
dicate not only the nature and scope of his intellectual 
ambitions, but present in considerable detail his pro- 
gram for the conquest of nature and his ^'new instru- 
ment" for the advancement of science. The "Essays" 
deal with a thousand points of practical philoso- 
phy; and "The New Atlantis" outlines his view of a 
model state and foreshadows the modern research 
university. 



RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY 35 

For philosophy in its more technical sense Descartes 
IS more important than Bacon, and his influence on 
succeeding thought is more clearly traceable. Hobbes, 
Locke, Berkeley, and Hume carried on the quest for 
philosophical truth in England, and were able to 
express their views in language that is still intelligible 
to the ordinary man. Pope, in his ^^Essay on Man," 
put into polished and elegant verse, the more obvious 
principles of a group of thinkers of his day; but the 
ideas are more memorable on account of their quot- 
able form than their profundity or subtlety. 

Voltaire, writing on many aspects of English life, 
includes in his ^'Letters'' a condensed account of the 
philosophy of Locke and the investigations of Newton. 
Rousseau in his ^'Discourse," one of the earliest of 
his writings, expounds the fundamentals of that social 
philosophy which he expanded later in the ^'Social Con- 
tract'' and elsewhere, and which had so important a 
place among the influences leading up to the French 
Revolution. Lessing^ clinging much closer to essential 
Christianity than Voltaire or Rousseau, elaborates in 
his '^Education of the Human Race" the views he up- 
held in opposition to the less liberal theologians of 
Protestant Germany. 

With Kant and his successors philosophy becomes 
more a professional subject, and with an increase in 
depth and subtlety it loses in breadth of appeal to the 
world at large. Yet the treatises mentioned in this list 
will yield to the reader who cares to apply his mind an 
idea of a view of ethics of immense possibilities of 
influence over his thought and conduct. 

A large part of the remaining titles are of poems 
whose philosophical bearing it is scarcely necessary to 



36 



READER'S GUIDE 



point out. More and more during the last hundred 
years poetry has been made the medium of serious 
thought on the problems of life; and if one wishes to 
learn what earnest and cultivated people have thought 
on such matters in our day and that of our fathers, 
as much is to be gained from the poets as from the 
professional metaphysicians or moralists. In Carlyle 
and Emerson we have two writers who can not be 
regarded as systematic philosophers, and who yet have 
been among the most influential of modern thinkers. 
Mill has a more definite place in the history of phi- 
losophy ; but in his fascinating account of his own de- 
velopment, and in his essay ''On Liberty," we need 
have no fear of technical jargon, and may find a clear 
picture of a mind finely representative of English 
thought in the middle of the nineteenth century, and 
an abundance of ideas capable of application to the 
problems of our own day. 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 


Page 


44 


n 


44 


339 


44 


147 


2 


3 


2 


45 


2 


31 


8 


5 


2 


193 


2 


117 


9 


7 


9 


45 



Hebrew: The Book of Job 

Ecclesiastes •••... 

The Psalms 

Greek: Plato, Apology of Socrates 

Phaedo 

Crito 

The Greek Drama: ^schylus, Sophocles, 
Euripides 

Roman : Marcus Aurelius, Meditations .... 

Epictetus, Golden Thoughts 

Cicero, On Friendship 

On Old Age 



RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY 



S7 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Page 



Chinese: Confucius, Analects or Sayings . . . 

Hindu : Bhagavad-Gita, or Song Celestial . . . 
Buddhist Writings 

Christian : Primitive and Medieval 

The Gospel of Luke 

The Acts of the Apostles 

The Epistles to the Corinthians 

St. Augustine, Confessions 

The Imitation of Christ 

Hymns of the Early Churches 

Mohammedan : The Koran 

Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam 

Christian: Modern 

Luther, Ninety-five Theses 

Address to the German Nobility . 

Concerning Christian Liberty . 

Calvin, Dedication of the Institutes of the 

Christian Religion 

Knox, Preface to History of the Reformation 

in Scotland 

Raleigh, Preface to History of the World . . 
Poems 

Southwell, The Burning Babe 

Habington, Nox Nocti 

Rowlands, Our Blessed Lady*s Lullaby . . 

Walton, Life of George Herbert 

Herbert, Poems 

Walton, Life of John Donne 

Donne, Hymn to God the Father .... 

Quarles, Poems 

Vaughan, Poems 

Crashaw, Saint Theresa 

Drummond, St. John Baptist 



44 



45 


799 


45 


587 


44 


357 


44 


429 


45 


501 


7 


5 


7 


213 


45 


545 


45 


885 


41 


970 


Z^ 


265 


36 


276 


2>e 


353 



39 



29 



39 


61 


39 


69 


40 


206 


40 


222 


40 


258 


40 


261 


15 


Z77 


40 


351 


15 


327 


40 


311 


40 


350 


40 


356 


40 


Z72 


40 


335 



38 



READER'S GUIDE 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Christian : Modern 

Wotton, Character of a Happy Life . . . . ! 40 

Sir Thomas Browne, Relig-io Medici ... 3 

Bunyan, The Pilgrim's Progress 15 

Milton, Ode on the Xativit>* 4 

Ode on the Passion 4 

Paradise Lost 4 

Paradise Regained 4 

Pascal, Thoughts • -^ 

Minor Works 48 

Penn. Fruits of Solitude ^ 

Watts, True Greatness 40 

Addison, H\-mn 40 

Smart, Song to David 4i 

Woolman, Journal ^ 

HN-mns of the Modem Churches .... 45 



M<H)ERN Philosophers: 

Bacon, Prooemium, Epistle Dedicatory, Pref- 
ace and Plan of the Instauratio 

Magna 

Preface to the Novum Organum . 

Essays 

The New Atlantis 

Descartes, Discourse on Method .... 
Hobbes, On Man (Bk. I of the Leviathan) . 
Locke, Some Thoughts on Education . . . 

Berkelej-, Three Dialogues 

Pope, Elssay on Man 

Voltaire, Letters on the English 

Rousseau, Discourse on the Causes of In- 
equality 

Lessing, Education of the Human Race . 
Hume, Enquiry concerning Human L'nder- 

standing 

Kant, Fundamental Principles of the Meta- 
physic of Morals 



39 
39 
3 
3 
^ 
34 
37 
37 
40 

34 

34 
32 

37 
32 



RELIGIOV AND PHILOSOPHY 



Subject akd Author 



\'0L. 



Page 



Modern Philosophers: 

Kant, Transition from Popular Moral Phi- 
losophy to the Metaphysic of Morals . 
Wordsworth, Ode on Intimations of Im- 
mortality 

Ode to Duty 

Lines Written above Tintern Ab- 
bey 

Character of a Happy Warrior . 

Shelley, Adonais 

Written among the Euganean Hills 

Mill, Autobiography 

On Liberty 

Carlyle, Characteristics 

Emerson, Essays 

Poems 

Tennyson, The Higher Pantheism .... 
Flower in the Crannied Wall 

Wages 

Maud 

Crossing the Bar 

Thackeray, The End of the Play .... 

Browning, Prospice 

Abt Voglcr 

Rabbi Ben Ezra 

Epilogue 

Emily Bronte, Last Lines 

The Old Stoic 

Clough, Poems 

Arnold, Rugby Chapel 

Dover Beach 

The Better Part 

The Last Word 

Henley, To R. T. H. B 

Stevenson, The Celestial Surgeon .... 

Bryant, Thanatopsis 

Whitticr, The Eternal Goodness 



32 

41 

41 



Z2>7 

609 
665 



41 


6.S0 


41 


672 


41 


879 


41 


858 


2S 


7 


2S 


203 


25 


J53 


5 


5 


42 


1292 


42 


1058 


42 


1039 


42 


1039 


42 


1052 


42 


ioq8 


42 


1099 


42 


1106 


42 


1144 


42 


1148 


42 


1155 


42 


1 156 


42 


1157 


42 


1 165 


42 


1 176 


42 


1 183 


42 


11&4 


42 


11S5 


42 


1258 


42 


1261 


42 


ij6j 


42 


1414 



40 



READER'S GUIDE 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Page 



Modern Philosophers: 

Holmes, The Chambered Nautilus . 
Lanier, How Love Looked for Hell 
Whitman, One's-Self I Sing . . . 



a • • 



42 
42 



1442 
1475 
1483 



c 

EDUCATION 

rHE earlier discussions on education differ 
from most modern writings on the subject in 
one important respect : the author had his eye 
the single youth, the son of a family* of birth and 
ilth, who was to be educated alone; while the edu- 
ional theorist of to-day, even w^hen he is not dealing 
h popular elementary education, is usually concerned 
h institutions for training pupils in large groups, 
is distinction has inevitably a profound effect upon 

nature of the principles laid down. 
Montaigne, Locke, and Milton are all examples of 
> earlier kind of discussion. It is assumed that all re- 
irces are at command, and the only questions to be 
tied are the comparative value of subjects and the 
t order and method O'f learning. On these points 

opinions of these men are still valuable; and all 
ee, but especially Locke, give incidentally much in* 
mation on the manners and state of culture of 
ir times. 

rhe five "Essays" by Bacon named here do not 
m an attempt to construct a scheme of education, 

deal suggestively with single points of importance 
the training of children. '*The New Atlantis" de- 
ibes in "Solomon's House" an elaborate institution 
■ advancing knowledge, which anticipates in many 
pects the departments for research in modern uni- 
sities. 

41 



42 READER'S GUIDE 

Swift's so-called "Treatise'' deals lightly with social 
rather than intellectual culture; and the chapter on 
the "Education of Women'' by his contemporary, De- 
foe, shows how long it is since some views which we 
are apt to regard as entirely modern have been put 
forward. 

Lessing's treatise is more philosophical than edu- 
cational in the ordinary sense, being rather an inter- 
pretation of history as the record of the development 
of the race than a plan for the future. The letters 
in which Schiller discussed the "Esthetic Education 
of Man" contain the essence of his views on art. 

It is characteristic of American democracy that the 
lectures by Channing should be on the elevation 
of the laboring classes, and should take up an edu- 
cational problem at the end of the social scale most 
remote from that where Montaigne and Locke found 
their interest. 

Mill's "Autobiography" is an account of great in- 
terest of the education of a remarkable son by a re- 
markable father ; and though containing much that has 
no direct bearing upon the training of the average 
child, it is valuable as showing what extraordinary 
results can be achieved under exceptional conditions. 

Newman's discussion of "The Idea of a University" 
deals with the ultimate aims of university education, 
and some of the more important considerations affect- 
ing the means of attaining them. Carlyle's address, 
delivered at Edinburgh while he was Lord Rector of 
his own University, is a sort of summary of an old 
man's wisdom on questions of a student's use of his 
time and the choice of his reading. Ruskin's well- 
known lectures, "Sesame and Lilies," deal in very dif- 



EDUCATION 



43 



ferent, but equally characteristic fashion with similar 
topics. 

In "Science and Culture," Huxley presents from the 
point of view of the scientist his side of the standing 
question of modern education: the comparative value 
of science and the classics as a means of culture. 



Subject and Author 



Vol. Page 



Montaigne, On the Institution and Education of 

Children 

Bacon, Of Travel 

Of Nature in Men 

Of Custom and Education 

Of Studies 

» Of Parents and Children 

The New Atlantis 

Milton, Tractate on Education 

Locke, Some Thoughts on Education 

Swift, Treatise on Good Manners and Good Breed- 
ing 

Defoe, Education of Women 

Lessing, On the Education of the Human Race . 
Schiller, Letters upon the Esthetic Education of 

Man 

Channing, On the Elevation of the Laboring Classes 

]\Iill, Autobiography 

Newman, The Idea of a University 

Carlyle, Inaugural Address at Edinburgh University 
Ruskin, Sesame and Lilies ........ 

Huxley, Science and Culture 



32 


29 


3 


48 


3 


lOI 


3 


103 


3 


128 


3 


20 


3 


151 


3 


245 


Z7 


Q 


27 


106 


27 


158 


32 


IPS 


32 


221 


^ 


321 


25 


7 


28 


31 


25 


375 


28 


95 


28 


217 



D 

SCIENCE 

THE writings of ancient times on physical 
science are now mainly of historical and 
curious interest; but from Greek times have 
come down these two interesting formulas to which the 
name of Hippocrates is attached, which show how 
loftly a conception the ancient physician held of his 
function, and which form the basis of the professional 
ethics of the modern doctor. 

The army surgeon is a modern official. In the six- 
teenth century, even an officer who wished medical 
or surgical attendance had to take his personal doctor 
with him, or trust to the quacks who swindled the 
rank and file. Pare was such a personal surgeon to 
several distinguished generals through many cam- 
paigns; and the account of his improvements in the 
treatment of wounds vies in interest with his descrip- 
tion of the battles themselves. 

Few single scientific discoveries have influenced the 
world so profoundly as that which showed that the 
earth was not the center of the universe. The treatise 
in which Copernicus put forth the new theory is filled 
with arguments which are often preposterous, so that 
for the true explanation of the motions of the heavenly 
bodies the book is practically useless. But from his 
^'Dedication'' we gather something of the spirit of the 
man who led the way in this momentous reform. The 

44 



SCIENCE 45 

'Trincipia" of Newton has immeasurably greater 
scientific value, but the reasoning is highly technical, 
so that the ordinary reader is glad to get the great 
physicist's own statement of the purpose and method 
of the work which first expounded the law of gravita- 
tion. 

The papers by Harvey and Jenner are landmarks in 
the history of physiology and medicine, the one ex- 
plaining for the first time the true theory of the circu- 
lation of the blood; the other putting forward the 
method of vaccination which has relieved the world 
of the scourge of smallpox. 

Faraday was n'ot only a great investigator but also 
a great teacher, and these two books by him are clas- 
sical expositions of fundamental laws in physics and 
chemistry. 

Dr Holmes's paper is an interesting scientific argu- 
ment, which proved of immense value in saving life; 
it is also an inspiring instance of the courage of 
a young scientist in risking professional disaster 
by attacking the practices and prejudices of his col- 
leagues. 

The theories which lie behind Lord Lister's appli- 
cation of the antiseptic principle in surgery are ex- 
pounded in the fascinating papers in which Pasteur 
makes the original argument for the germ theory of 
disease, and founds the science of bacteriology. 

In the chapters included in the following list from 
Sir Charles Lyell's ''Principles of Geology," he com- 
bats the notion that to explain the present condition of 
the earth it is necessary to assume a series of great 
catastrophes. A more comprehensive view of a modern 
geologist's theory of how the physical world arrived 



46 READER'S GUIDE 

at its present form is given in Geikie's essay on "Geo- 
graphical Evolution." 

The great German physicist, von Helmholtz, is here 
represented by a lecture on the fundamental principle 
of the conservation of energy;, and one on the theory 
of glaciers, while his colleague in Britain, Sir William 
Thomson, Lord Kelvin, expounds the wave theory of 
h'ght and the movement of the tides. 

It was on the voyage of the *'Beagle" that Darwin 
collected the material which suggested to him the great 
generalization later set forth in '*The Origin of Spe- 
cies." and gave currency to a theory of development 
that has proved to be the most pervasive and influential 
force in the intellectual progress of modern times. 

How enormously modem astronomical investigation 
has increased our notion of the universe, of which we 
form so minute a part, is expounded by Newcomb in 
his essay on "The Extent of the Universe." 

Thus in the scientific section of these volumes the 
reader may gain from the pens of the leaders and 
discoverers themselves an idea of many of the most 
important conceptions in the sciences of Medicine, 
Surger}\ Physiology, Biolog}% Bacteriology, Physics, 
Chemistr}', Geolog}', and Astronomy. 

Subject axd Author 1 Vol. i Page 



The Oath of Hippocrates 38 3 

The Law of Hippocrates 38 4 

Pare, Journeys in Diverse Places 38 9 

Copernicus, Dedication of Revolutions of the 

Heavenly Bodies ...... 39 55 

Harvey, On the Motion of the Heart and Blood of 

Animals • 3^, 63 



SCIENCE 



47 



Subject and Author 



Newton, Preface to the Principia 

Jenner, The Three Original Publications on Vac- 
cination against Smallpox 

Faraday, The Forces of Matter 

The Chemical History of a Candle . 
Holmes, The Contagiousness of Puerperal Fever . 
Lister, On the Antiseptic Principle in the Practice 

of Surgery 

Pasteur, The Physiological Theory of Fermentation 
The Germ Theory and its Applications to 

Medicine arid Surgery 

On the Extension of the Germ Theory to 

the Etiology of Certain Common Diseases 

Lyell, Prejudices which have Retarded the Progress 

of Geology 

Uniformity in the Series of Past Changes in 
the Animate and Inanimate Worlds . 
Von Helmholtz, On the Conservation of Force . 

Ice and Glaciers 

Darwin, The Voyage of the "Beagle" 

The Origin of Species 

Kelvin, The Wave Theory of Light 

The Tides 

Newcomb, The Extent of the Universe .... 
Geikie, Geographical Evolution 



Vol. 


Page 


39 


157 


38 


153 


30 


5 


30 


89 


38 


235 


38 


271 


38 


289 


38 


382 


38 


390 


ss 


405 


38 


419 


30 


181 


30 


221 


29 


II 


II 


25 


30 


263 


30 


287 


30 


325 


30 


339 



E 

POLITICS 

FROM the point of view that ^'history is past 
politics,'' it is evident that such historical docu- 
ments as those in the **Lives'' of Plutarch and 
the ^'Letters'* of Cicero and Pliny are also of value 
. from the political point of view. Many of the problems 
of politics change their form rather than their essence 
from age to age. and in these records of the political 
struggles and principles of antiquity there are many 
illuminating parallelisms to the conditions of our own 
day. Even the contrast to modem democratic ideas 
of government which the theories of Machiavelli af- 
ford is suggestive; and in the institutions of Eliza- 
bethan England as described by William Harrison we 
may often find the germ of practices which persist here 
to-day. 

More's ^'Utopia'* and Bacon's "New Atlantis" have 
the value belonging to any sketch of ideal conditions 
drawn up by men of capacity and experience; and, 
with much that is fantastic, both books still afford con- 
siderable practical suggestion for political progress. 
Those of Bacon's ^'Essays" which touch political topics 
contain abundance of acute observations on the conduct 
of public men, though the advice is sometimes, but 
not always, more suited to forming politicians than 
statesmen. 

Though dealing with the special subject of un- 

48 



POLITICS 40 

licensed printing, Milton, in his *^\reopagitica/' 
handles with a noble eloquence many of the funda- 
mental questions affecting free government. Defoe's 
pamphlet treats in ironical strain the situation during 
a later period in the progress of England towards free- 
dom and equality — in this case, religious equality; 
while Voltaire, coming from France a few years later, 
expresses his admiration for English tolerance. Of 
Rousseau's '^Discourse" wx have already spoken 
(I. A). 

"The Wealth of Nations" may be regarded as 
founding the modem science of political economy; and 
it remains the greatest general treatise on the subject. 
The present edition has been relieved of those passages 
which are out of date and no longer of value. 

In Burke's eloquent ''Reflections" we get the view 
taken by an English constitutionalist of the principles 
of the French Revolution while it was still in progress; 
and in his ''Letter to a Noble Lord" a vivid glimi>se 
of the workings of politics in England at the same 
period. 

Mill's treatise "On Liberty" is a classical argument 
on the relation of the individual to the state. 

The poetry of the nineteenth centur}- contains much 
political as well as philosophical thinking; and the 
pieces by Goldsmith, Wordsworth, and Tennyson are 
favorable examples of the impassioned treatment of 
these themes in verse. 

The interest and importance of the American Docu- 
ments here collected are obvious; and a careful study 
of these alone will go far to give a basis for an in- 
telligent understanding of contemporar}'' politics. 



50 



READER'S GUIDE 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Page 



Plutarch, Lives of Greeks and Romans .... 

Cicero, Letters 

Pliny the Younger, Letters to Trajan 

Machiavelli, The Prince 

Macaulay, Machiavelli 

More, Utopia 

Harrison, Elizabethan England 

Bacon, The New Atlantis 

Essays : Of Unity in Religion, Of Great 
Place, Of Nobility, Of Seditions and 
Troubles, Of Empire, Of Counsel, Of De- 
lays, Of Cunning, Of Innovations, Of 
Despatch, Of the True Greatness of King- 
doms and Estates, Of Plantations, Of Am- 
bition, Of Usury, Of Negotiating, Of Fol- 
lowers and Friends, Of Suitors, Of Fac- 
tion, Of Judicature, Of Vicissitudes of 
Things 

Milton, Areopagitica 

Defoe, The Shortest Way with Dissenters .... 

Voltaire, Letters on the English 

Rousseau, Discourse on the Causes of Inequality . 

Smith, The Wealth of Nations 

Burke, Reflections on the French Revolution . 

Letter to a Noble Lord 

Goldsmith, The Deserted Village 

Wordsworth, Political Sonnets 

Tennyson, Locksley Hall 

Maud 

Sydney Smith, Fallacies of Anti-Reformers . . . 

Mill, On Liberty 

Emerson, Politics 

Lowell, Democracy 

The Present Crisis 

American Historical Documents, especially . . . 
The First Charter of Virginia 



12 

9 
9 
36 
27 
36 
35 
3 



5 

83 
195 

7 
381 

143 
229 

151 



3 


7 


3 


193 


27 


143 


34 


65 


34 


167 


10 


9 


24 


151 


24 


401 


41 


521 


41 


690 


42 


1009 


42 


1052 


27 


22^7 


25 


203 


5 


249 


28 


464 


42 


1447 


43 


5 


43 


51 



POLITICS 



51 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Page 



American Historical Documents: 

The Mayflower Compact . . , ^ . . 
The Fundamental Orders of Connecticut . 
The Massachusetts Body of Liberties . 
Winthrop, Arbitrary Government Described 
The Instrument of Government .... 
Sir Henry Vane, a Healing Question . . 

Declaration of Rights 

Declaration of Independence .... 
Constitution of the United States . . . 

The Federalist, I and II 

Opinion of Chief Justice Marshall . 
Washington, First Inaugural Address . 
Washington, Farewell Address .... 

The Monroe Doctrine 

Lincoln, Gettysburg Address . , . . . 



43 


62 


43 


(>z 


43 


70 


43 


90 


43 


113 


43 


126 


43 


157 


43 


160 


43 


192 


43 


212 


43 


222 


43 


241 


43 


250 


43 


296 


43 


441 



F 

VOYAGES AND TRAVELS 

THE story of travel has always held a general 
fascination; and little is needed to introduce 
to the reader such a list as follows. Begin- 
ning with the account of ancient Egypt by Herodotus, 
the collection gives the narratives of the early voyages 
to America of Leif Ericsson, Columbus, Amerigo Ves- 
pucci, and Cabot ; the campaigns followed by the French 
surgeon, Ambroise Pare, in the sixteenth century; the 
voyages, partly for exploration, largely for plunder, of 
the great seamen of Elizabeth's time, Drake, Gilbert, 
and Raleigh: and, in striking contrast, John Eliot's 
*'Brief Narrative" of his travels in the attempt to 
propagate the Gk>spel among the American Indians. 
Goldsmith's ^'Traveller" describes many scenes in 
eighteenth century Europe; and in Dana's absorbing 
"Two Years Before the Mast" we have the double 
interest of a picture of life on a sailing vessel two 
generations ago, and an admirable account of Cali- 
fornia as it was under the Spaniards, and before '49. 

Darwin's "Voyage of the Beagle," apart from its 
scientific importance, is a highly interesting and mod- 
estly told story of exploration in remote seas. Emer- 
son's "English Traits" is a penetrating description and 
criticism of England, its people and its institutions, 
as the American philosopher saw it in the middle of 
the nineteenth century. 

52 



VOYAGES AND TRAVELS 



S3 



Subject and Author 



Herodotus, Egypt 

Voyages to Vinland from Saga of Eric the Red . 

Pare, Journeys in Diverse Places 

Columbus, Letter Announcing Discovery of America 
Amerigo Vespucci, Account of his First Voyage . 

Cabot, Discovery of North America 

Sir Francis Drake Revived 

Drake's Famous Voyage Round the World . 

Drake's Great Armada 

Sir Humphrey Gilbert's Voyage to Newfoundland . 

Raleigh, Discovery of Guiana 

Eliot, Brief Narrative 

Goldsmith, The Traveller 

Dana, Two Years Before the Mast 

Darwin, The Voyage of the "Beagle" 

Emerson, English Traits 



Vol. 


Page 


33 


5 


43 


5 


38 


9 


43 


22 


43 


29 


43 


47 


33 


133 


33 


207 


33 


237 


33 


271 


33 


321 


43 


147 


41 


532 


23 


7 


29 


II 


5 


327 



G 

CRITICISM OF LITERATURE 
AND THE FINE ARTS 

WILLIAM CAXTON, the first printer in Eng- 
land, took a much more personal interest 
in the productions of his press than does 
the modem publisher. He himself made several of 
the translations which he printed; and to- other books 
he attached Prologues and Epilogues, which, if not 
quite literary criticism after the modem manner, are 
yet interesting indications of the qualities which made 
the works which Caxton selected for publication the 
favorite reading of the end of the Middle Ages. 

Of the three critical writings selected from the six- 
teenth century, Montaigne's is a delightful talk on his 
personal tastes (see essay by Sainte-Beuve below) ; 
Sidney defends imaginative literature against the as- 
saults of an extreme Puritan ; and Spenser explains to 
his friend Raleigh the plan and purpose of "The 
Faerie Queene.'' 

Shakespeare, as is well known, paid no attention to 
the printing of his plays; and it was left for two of 
his fellow actors tO' make the first collected edition of 
them, seven years after his death. The unique im- 
portance of the volume makes the address of its editors 
to the readers a matter of curious interest. Of more 
real significance are the opinions, friendly yet candid, 

54 



CRITICISM OF LITERATURE AND FINE ARTS 55 

which Ben Jonson has left of his great fellow drama- 
tist, and of his patron, Bacon. 

But it is with Dryden that we come to the first En- 
glish critic on a large scale; and in his discussions on 
Chaucer and on Heroic Poetry we have him, both for 
style and matter, at his best. Swift's "Advice'' is 
slighter, and, like all his work, displays his ironic tem- 
per. Fielding, in a prefatory chapter, defines and ex- 
pounds his idea of a novel. Dr. Johnson's famous 
essay on Shakespeare originally formed the Preface to 
his edition of the plays ; and it remains one of the most 
important estimates of the genius of our greatest 
writer. In the "Life of Addison," Johnson was deal- 
ing with a subject where his eighteenth century limita- 
tions hampered him less, and the result is a delightful 
piece of appreciative criticism. 

So far the criticism in this list has been wholly 
literary. The next four writers are concerned with 
aesthetic principles in general, with, perhaps, a special 
interest in painting and sculpture. Goethe, in tliis man- 
festo of a new periodical to be devoted to the Fine 
Arts, gives impressively his view of the fundamentals 
of artistic training. Schiller, on a more extensive 
scale, treats of the cultivation of taste and the nature 
of the pleasure to be derived from art; while Hume 
and Burke deal with similar problems from different 
points of view. 

The "Prefaces" of Wordsworth and Hugo express 
in different but equally characteristic terms the revolt of 
the romantic poets of England and France respectively 
against the classical conventions that dominated poetry 
and the drama. Coleridge discourses in his own pro- 
found and often illuminating fashion on the essentials 



56 READER'S GUIDE 

of poetry, as does Shelley in his eloquent and phil- 
osophical ''Defense." Those who know Shelley only 
as the most exquisite of lyric poets will find that this 
essay will increase enormously their respect for his 
intellectual power. In the essay ''On the Trage- 
dies of Shakespeare" Lamb utters some of the most 
penetrating criticism ever passed upon the tragedy of 
"King Lear/' and presses to an extreme his view of 
the inferiority of the stage to the study for the en- 
joyment of Shakespeare. 

Thackeray's lecture on Swift is a fine example of 
the biographical essay, and may be compared with 
Carlyle's estimate of Scott with interesting results. 
Both men deal more with character than style, and 
both care passionately for moral quality. 

Walt Whitman's "Preface," like his poems, stands 
by itself, the outspoken plea for an astounding ex- 
tension of the limits of form and matter in poetry. 
His poems in the third volume of "English Poetry" in 
The Harvard Classics should be read in connection with 
this "Preface." 

Sainte-Beuve is generally placed at the head of 
European criticism in the nineteenth century; and the 
two papers here given are good examples of his man- 
ner. Renan, one of the most eloquent of modern 
writers in any country, discourses on "The Poetry 
of the Celtic Races" to which he himself belonged. 
Mazzini, purest of patriots, is represented by a paper 
which shows his fine power of generalization and of 
taking large views. An Italian nationalist in feeling, 
Mazzini was continental in the range of his intellect. 
Taine's famous "Introduction" expounds his formula 
for explaining the characteristics of a literature. What- 



CRITICISM OF LITERATURE AND FINE ARTS 57 

ever objections may be raised to his theory, there is 
no question of the brilliance of the presentation. 

Few critical writings of our own day have influenced 
the study of poetry so much as this of Matthew 
Arnold's. It is an excellent example of his style, and 
exhibits both the strength and the weakness of his 
critical thinking. 

"Sesame and Lilies" consists of two lectures, largely 
hortatory, but incidentally containing some notable 
criticism. Bagehot, best known as a writer on finance, 
appears here as a specimen of a strong non-literary 
intellect applying itself to the discussion of a literary 
topic. At the opposite extreme is the paper in which 
Poe, a master of the technical side of his art, treats of 
what he regards as its essence. In three essays, Emer- 
son discourses suggestively, if unsystematically, on 
''The Poet," on "Beauty," and on "Literature." Finally, 
in Stevenson's essay on "Samuel Pepys," one of the 
most expert of literary craftsmen of modern times 
sketches the personality of the writer who wrote the 
most remarkable "Diary" in English Literature. 

Subject and Author Vol. Page 



Caxton, Prologue and Epilogue to the Histories of 
Troy 

Epilogue to Dictes and Sayings of the Phi- 
losophers 

Prologue to the Golden Legend .... 

Prologue to Caton 

Epilogue to yEsop . 

Proem to Chaucer's Canterbury Tales . 

Prologue to Malory's King Arthur . . 

Prologue to Virgil's Eneydos 

Montaigne, Of Books 



39 



39 


10 


39 


14 


39 


15 


39 


i8 


39 


19 


39 


21 


39 


25 


32 


89 



58 



READER'S GUIDE 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Sidney, Defense of Poetry 

Spenser, Prefatory Letter to Sir Walter Raleigh on 

the Faerie Queene 

Heminge and Condell, Preface to the First Folio 

Edition of Shakespeare's Plays 

Jonson, On Shakespeare 

On Bacon 

To the Memory of Mr. William Shakespeare 

Dryden, Preface to Fables (On Chaucer) .... 

Dedication of the ^neis (On Heroic 

Poetry) 

Swift, Advice to a Young Poet 

Fielding, Preface to Joseph Andrews (On the 

Comic Epic in Prose) 

Johnson, Preface to Shakespeare 

Life of Addison 

Goethe, Introduction to the Propylaen (On Fine 

Art) 

Schiller, Letters upon the Esthetic Education of 

Man 

Hume, On the Standard of Taste 

Burke, On Taste 

On the Sublime and Beautiful 

Wordsworth, Prefaces to Various Volumes of Poems 
Appendix to Lyrical Ballads 
Essay Supplementary to Preface . 

Coleridge, On Poesy or Art 

Lamb, On the Tragedies of Shakespeare .... 

Shelley, A Defence of Poetry 

Hugo, Preface to "Cromwell'* (On Romanticism) . 

Thackeray, Jonathan Swift 

Carlyle, Sir Walter Scott 

Inaugural Address (On Books and Reading) 

Whitman, Preface to Leaves of Grass 

Sainte-Beuve, Montaigne 

What is a Classic? 

Renan, The Poetry of the Celtic Races 



27 

39 

39 
27 

27 
40 

39 

13 
27 

39 
39 
27 

39 

Z2 
27 
24 

24 
39 
39 
39 
27 
27 
27 

39 
2^ 

25 

39 
32 

32 

32 



CRITICISM OF LITERATURE AND FINE ARTS 59 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 


Page 


32 


399 


39 


433 


28 


65 


28 


95 


28 


171 


28 


3S3 


5 


167 


5 


307 


5 


449 


28 


295 



Mazzini, Byron and Goethe 

Taine, Introduction to History of English Literature 

Arnold, The Study of Poetry 

Ruskin, Sesame and Lilies 

Bagehot, John Milton 

Poe, The Poetic Principle 

Emerson, The Poet 

Beauty 

Literature 

Stevenson, Samuel Pepys 



CLASS II 

OF the large variety of literary types repre- 
sented in The Harvard Classics, only a few 
of the more prominent have been selected for 
classification here. Others stand already grouped in 
the volumes : for, example, the three volumes of Eng- 
lish Poetry, along with the works of Milton and Burns, 
contain most of the Lyric Poetry in the collection ; and 
the Prefaces regarded as independent documents, are 
in one volume. Still others, such as Allegory, Oratory, 
the Dialogue, occur in the lists made up according to 
subject matter; and readers interested in these as forms 
can easily collect them from the Tables of Contents 
and the General Index. 



A 

DRAMA 

In dramatic literature the palm of supremacy lies 
between Greece and England, and it is natural that 
these two countries should be most fully represented 
here. Both countries at a culminating point in their 
history expressed themselves in this form, and much 
of the intellectual and imaginative vitality of the 
Age of Pericles in Greece and the Age of Elizabeth 
in England can be apprehended from these dramas. 
Eight of the most distinguished masterpieces of the 

61 



62 



READER'S GUIDE 



other countries of Europe have been added ; so that the 
present list represents not unworthily the best in this 
form that the world has produced. 

These thirty-seven plays exhibit a great variety of 
dramatic form — classical and romantic tragedy, sa- 
tirical and romantic comedy, chronicle history, masque, 
and cantata. No less varied are the themes; from 
gods to beggars all types of character appear, and 
every variety of human motive, human effort, and hu- 
man suffering is shown. No other literary form could 
present in so few pages so just and so impressive a 
reflection of the pageant of human life. 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 


Page 


8 


156 


8 


5 


8 


71 


8 


115 


8 


197 


8 


243 


8 


287 


8 


349 


8 


419 


19 


199 


46 


5 


46 


87 


46 


203 


46 


305 


46 


379 


47 


447 


47 


521 


47 


639 


47 


721 


1 47 


819 



Greek : ^schylns, Prometheus Bound . , . . 

Agamemnon 

The Libation-Bearers .... 

The Furies 

Sophocles, CEdipus the King 

Antigone 

Euripides, Hippolytus 

The Bacchae 

Aristophanes, The Frogs 

English : Marlowe, Doctor Faustus 

Edward the Second . . . . 
Shakespeare, Hamlet 

King Lear 

Macbeth 

The Tempest 

Dekker, The Shoemaker's Holiday . . . . 

Jonson, The Alchemist 

Beaumont and Fletcher, Philaster . . . . 

Webster, The Duchess of Malfi 

Massinger, A New Way to Pay Old Debts . 



DRAMA 



63 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Page 



English : Milton, Comus 

Samson Agonistes . . . . 

Dry den, All for Love 

Sheridan, The School for Scandal . 
Goldsmith, She Stoops to Conquer . . . 

Burns, The Jolly Beggars 

Shelley, The Cenci 

Byron, Manfred 

Browning, A Blot in the ^Scutcheon . 

Spanish: Calderon, Life is a Dream . . . . 

French : Corneille, Polyeucte 

Racine, Phaedra 

Moliere, Tartuffe 

German: Lessing, Minna von Barnhelm . . . 

Goethe, Faust 

Egmont 

Schiller, Wilhelm Tell 



4 
4 
i8 
i8 
i8 
6 
i8 
i8 
i8 

26 



46 
418 

21 
105 
203 
129 
281 
403 
357 



26 


71 


26 


125 


26 


189 


26 


287 


19 


21 


19 


247 


26 


369 



VOL. L — HC (3) 



B 

BIOGRAPHY AxVD LETTERS 

MOST of the titles in this list have already 
been the subject of comment; those that re- 
main speak for themselves. Here are a 
number of records of actual human lives, all of them of 
notable people, chosen either for their representative 
or for their intrinsic value. Some of tliese records 
are by skilled biographers like Plutarch ; in other cases, 
by letters, or confessions, or in set narratives, the 
stor}- is told by the man himself; still others are sum- 
maries and estimates rather than detailed biographies. 
Perhaps the formal autobiographies are the most in- 
teresting and significant of all; and of these the per- 
sonal revelations of St Augustine, of Benvenuto Cel- 
lini, of Benjamin Franklin, and of John Stuart Mill 
stand in the first rank. 



Subject axd Author 



VOL. 


Page 


12 


^ 
:> 


12 


ze 


12 


8o 


12 


no 


12 


197 


12 


152 


12 


225 


12 


274 


12 


334 



Plutarch, Life of Themistocles . 

Pericles 
Aristides . 
Alcibiades 
Demosthenes 
Coriolanus 
Cicero . 
Caesar . 
Antonj' 

64 



BIOGRAPHIES AND LETTERS 



65 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 


Page 


9 


83 


9 


195 


7 


5 


31 


5 


36 


93 


15 


327 


15 


377 


27 


165 


24 


401 


I 


5 


I 


177 


27 


381 


28 


5 


2S 


409 


25 


7 


28 


441 


2S 1 


295 



Cicero, Letters 

Pliny the Younger, Letters . . 
St. Augustine, Confessions . 
Benvenuto Cellini, Autobiography 
Roper, Life of Sir Thomas More 
Walton, Life of Dr. Donne . 

Life of George Herbert 
Johnson, Life of Addison . 
Burke, Letter to a Noble Lord . 
Franklin, Autobiography . 

Woolman, Journal 

Macaulay, Machiavelli .... 
Thackeray, Jonathan Swift . 
Carlyle, Sir Walter Scott . . . 
Mill, Autobiography .... 
Lowell, Abraham Lincoln . 
Stevenson, Samuel Pepys . . . 



c 

ESSAYS 

THERE is almost no limit to the variety of 
theme which may be treated in the essay, and 
few rules can be laid down to regulate its 
form. Montaigne, who may be said to have originated 
this type of literature, remains one of the greatest mas- 
ters of it; and in the specimens from his work in the 
present list one can find the ease and grace and the 
pleasant flavor of personal intimacy which constitute 
much of its charm. 

A large proportion of these essays deal with books, 
and of these something has already been said in the 
section on Criticism. Some, like those of Milton, 
Swift, Defoe, Newman, and Huxley, fall also under 
the heading of Education. A few treat of political 
matters; such are those of Sydney Smith, Mill, and 
Lowell. Others, such as some of Montaigne's, Rus- 
kin's, Carlyle's, Emerson's, and Stevenson's, deal with 
matters of conduct, though not in the formal manner 
of the ethical philosopher. Bacon's "Essays" are con- 
cerned with so great a variety of subjects that clas- 
sification is difficult ; but the largest group form a sort 
of handbook of the principles on which success in 
public life was achieved in his time. Yet these more 
severe themes are mingled with others of more charm, 
where he chats pleasantly on an ideal palace or gar- 
den, or on the contriving of courtly entertainments. 

66 



ESSAYS 



67 



Of all prose forms, the essay is that which gives 
most scope for pure expression of personahty. Those 
in the present Hst which rank highest as essays do so, 
not by virtue of the weight of their opinions, or argu- 
ments, or information, but by the spontaneity with 
which the author gives utterance to his mood or fancy. 
Thus the delightful essay of Cowley "Of Agriculture" 
is hardly to be recommended as a guide to farming; 
but as a quarter of an hour of graceful conversation it 
is charming. Hazlitt, Leigh Hunt, Lamb, De Quincey, 
Thoreau, and Stevenson (in "Truth of Intercourse'') 
all exhibit this individual quality, and reveal person- 
alities of dififerent kinds and degrees of attractiveness, 
but none without a high degree of interest. 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Page 



Montaigne, That We Should not Judge of our Hap- 
piness until after our Death . 
That to Philosophize is to Learn how to 

Die 

Of the Institution and Education of 

Children 

Of Friendship 

Of Books 

Sidney, Defense of Poetry 

Bacon, Essays 

Milton, Tractate on Education 

Cowley, Of Agriculture 

Dryden, Preface to Fables 

Dedication of the ^neis 

Addison, Westminster Abbey 

Steele, The Spectator Club 

Swift, Hints towards an Essay on Conversation . 
On Good Manners and Good Breeding . 
A Letter of Advice to a Young Poet . . . 



32 



32 



32 


29 


32 


74 


32 


89 


27 


7 


3 


7 


3 


245 


27 


65 


39 


160 


13 


5 


27 


82 


27 


89 


27 


97 


27 


106 


27 


112 



68 



READER'S GUIDE 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Swift, On the Death of Esther Johnson (Stella) . 

Defoe, The Shortest Way with Dissenters . . 

The Education of Women 

Fielding, Preface to Joseph Andrews 

Johnson, Preface to Shakespeare 

Preface to English Dictionary .... 
Life of Addison 

Hume, On the Standard of Taste 

Burke, On Taste 

Goethe, Introduction to the Propylaen 

Sydney Smith, Fallacies of Anti-Reformers . 

Wordsworth, Preface to Various Volumes of Poems 
Appendix to Lyrical Ballads . . . 
Essay Supplementary to Preface . 

Coleridge, On Poesy or Art 

Hazlitt, On Persons One would Wish to have Seen . 

Leigh Hunt, Deaths of Little Children 

On the Realities of Imagination . 

Lamb, On the Tragedies of Shakespeare .... 

De Quincey, Levana and Our Ladies of Sorrow . . 

Shelley, A Defence of Poetry 

Channing, On the Elevation of the Laboring 
Classes 

Hugo, Preface to Cromwell 

Macaulay, Machiavelli 

Sainte-Beuve, Montaigne 

What is a Classic? 

Thackeray, Jonathan Swift 

Renan, The Poetry of the Celtic Races 

Mazzini, Byron and Goethe 

Newman, The Idea of a University 

Arnold, The Study of Poetry 

Ruskin, Sesame and Lilies 

Taine, Introduction to the History of English Litera- 
ture 

Bagehot, John Milton 

Foe, The Poetic Principle 



27 
27 
27 
39 
39 
39 
27 
27 
24 
39 
27 
39 
39 
39 
^'J 
27 
27 
27 
27 
27 
27 

28 

39 

27 

Z2 
32 
28 
32 
32 
28 
28 
28 

39 
28 
28 



ESSAYS 



69 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 


Page 


25 


233 


25 


409 


39 


409 


5 


5 


5 


327 


25 


P03 


28 


217 


28 


235 


28 


407 


28 


441 


28 


464 


28 


287 


28 


295 



Carlyle, Characteristics .... 
Sir Walter Scott . . . 
Whitman, Preface to Leaves of Grass 

Emerson, Essays 

English Traits .... 

Mill, On Liberty 

Huxley, Science and Culture 
Freeman, Race and Language . • 

Thoreau, Walking 

Lowell, Abraham Lincoln .... 

Democracy 

Stevenson, Truth of Intercourse . 
Samuel Pepys .... 



D 

NARRATIVE POETRY AND 
PROSE FICTION 

IN this section we have the largest proportion of 
what frankly professes to be the literature of 
entertainment. All these titles belong to works 
which are in the first place good stories ; and most of 
them have lived largely by virtue of this quality. They 
come from all centuries within the historic period, and 
from all the countries within our range. They deal 
with war and peace, love and hate, gods and men and 
animals, angels and demons, historic fact, modern ob- 
servation, and pure fancy; some mean no more than 
they seem to — simple tales of the action and suffering 
of men; others carry mystical significations hidden 
under the surface. 

But, though they may profess no more than a power 
to entertain, they, in fact, do far more for us. Each 
of these tales, in proportion to its truth to human 
nature and the effectiveness with which it is told, helps 
to make us more fully acquainted with our kind, 
broadens our sympathies, deepens our insight, serves 
us, in fact, as a kind of experience obtained at second 
hand. No less than the most weighty philosophy or 
the most informing history or science, then, do these 
stories in prose and poetry deserve their place among 
the essential instruments of mental and moral culture. 

70 



NARRATIVE POETRY AND PROSE FICTION 71 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 


Page 


22 


9 


13 


75 


17 


9 


49 


5 


49 


97 


49 


26s 


49 


211 


l6 


17 


20 


5 


40 


II 


40 


35 


40 


130 


40 


51 


35 


107 


14 


19 


40 


226 


40 


230 


4 


89 


4 


363 


15 


13 


27 


77 


27 


89 


19 


335 


41 


559 


6 


411 


21 


7 


41 


630 


41 


622 


41 


678 


41 


698 


41 


726 


41 


721 


41 


766 


41 


769 


41 


774 


41 


821 



Homer, The Odyssey ...••••• 

Virgil, The ^neid 

^sop's Fables 

Beowulf 

The Song of Roland 

The Song of the Volsungs 

The Destruction of Da Derga's Hostel . . 

The Arabian Nights 

Dante, The Divine Comedy 

Chaucer, Prologue to the Canterbury Tales . 
The Nun's Priest's Tale .... 

The Gest of Robyn Hode 

Traditional Ballads 

Malory, The Holy Grail 

Cervantes, Don Quixote 

Drayton, Agincourt 

To the Virginian Voyage . 

Milton, Paradise Lost 

Paradise Regained 

Bunyan, The Pilgrim's Progress .... 

Addison, The Vision of Mirza 

Steele, The Spectator Club 

Goethe, Hermann and Dorothea .... 
Cowper, The Diverting History of John Gilpin 

Burns, Tarn o' Shanter 

Manzoni, I Promessi Sposi 

Wordsworth, Michael 

Ruth 

Laodamia 

Coleridge, The Ancient Mariner 

Christabel 

Love 

Scott, Rosabelle 

Lochinvar 

Hogg, Kilmeny 

Byron, The Prisoner of Chillon 



72 



READER'S GUIDE 



Subject and Author 



Vol. 



Byron, The Destruction of Sennacherib .... 41 

Campbell, Lord Ullin's Daughter 41 

Battle of the Baltic 41 

Hohenlinden 41 

Keats, The Eve of St. Agnes 41 

Landor, The Death of Artemidora 41 

Iphigeneia 41 

Grimm, Household Tales 17 

Andersen, Tales 17 

Tennyson, Maud 42 

Morte d'Arthur 42 

The Lady of Shalott 42 

The Revenge 42 

Rizpah 42 

Locksley Hall 42 

Browning, My Last Duchess 42 

How They Brought the Good News . . 42 

Macaulay, The Armada 41 

D. G. Rossetti, The King's Tragedy 42 

C. Rossetti, In the Round Tower at Jhansi ... 42 

W. Morris, The Defence of Guinevere 42 

Dobell, The Ballad of Keith of Ravelston ... 42 

Poe, The Raven . 42 

Longfellow, Evangeline 42 

The Wreck of the ''Hesperus" ... 42 

Paul Revere's Ride 42 

Whittier, Randolph of Roanoke 42 

Barclay of Ury 42 

Maud Muller 42 

Skipper Ireson's Ride 42 

The Pipes of Lucknow 42 

Barbara Frietchie 42 

Lowell, The Courtin* 42 

Lanier, The Revenge of Hamish 42 



AN INDEX TO THE FIRST LINES 

OF POEMS, SONGS AND CHORUSES, 

HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


42 


IS06 


4 


81 


41 


792 


28 


394 


6 


139 


41 


696 


42 


1 195 


42 


I157 


25 


89 


6 


155 


6 


343 


41 


960 


49 


318 


6 


133 


42 


1229 


45 


591 


19 


86 


6 


512 


42 


1257 


4 


418 


16 


213 


49 


422 


45 


570 


42 


1057 


5 


167 


46 


182 


41 1 


947 



A batter'd, wreck'd old man . 

A book was writ of late called Tetrachordon . 

A chieftain to the Highlands bound 

A feeling of sadness and longing 

A fig for those by law protected 

A flock of sheep that leisurely pass by ... . 
A garden is a lovesome thing, God wot . . . . 

A good sword and a trusty hand 

A grief without a pang, void, dark, and drear . 
A guid New- Year I wish thee, Maggie . . . . 
A head, pure, sinless quite of brain and soul . 

A heavy heart, Beloved, have I borne 

A high hall is there 

A Highland lad my love was born . . . . . 
A hundred, a thousand to one ; even so ... . 

A hundred thousand cycles vast 

A king there was once reigning 

A lassie all alone, was making her moan . 
A late lark twitters from the quiet skies . . . . 
A little onward lend thy guiding hand . . . . 
A man in prosperity resembleth a tree . . . . 

A may of all mays 

A mighty fortress is our God 

A million emeralds break from the ruby-budded lime 

A moody child and wildly wise 

A pick-axe and a spade, a spade 

A plenteous place is Ireland for hospitable cheer . 

73 



74 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



A povre widwe somdel stope in age 

A prince can mak* a belted knight 

A robe of seeming truth and trust 

A rose-bud by my early walk 

A School for Scandal! tell me, I beseech you . . 

A simple child 

A slave to Love's unbounded sway 

A slumber did my spirit seal 

A sweet disorder in the dress ....... 

A voice by the cedar tree 

A weary lot is thine, fair maid 

A wet sheet and a flowing sea 

A widow bird sate mourning for her Love . 

A wise priest knows he now must reap .... 

Abide with me ! fast falls the eventide .... 

Abou Ben Adhem (may his tribe increase) . 

Absence, hear thou my protestation 

Abstain from censure; for it will strengthen the 
censured 

Accuse me not, beseech thee, that I wear .... 

Adieu ! a heart-warm fond adieu 

Adieu, farewell earth's bliss 

Admiring Nature in her wildest grace , . . . 

Adopted in God's family, and so 

Adown winding Nith I did wander 

Ae day, as Death, that gruesome care . . . . 

Ae fond kiss, and then we sever 

Afar the illustrious Exile roams 

Afflicted regents of my soul 

Again rejoicing Nature sees 

Again the silent wheels of time 

Again yourselves compose 

Ah, broken is the golden bowl ! the spirit flown for- 
ever 

Ah, Chloris ! could I now but sit 

Ah, Chloris, since it may not be . • . o . . 

Ah! County Guy, the hour is nigh 

Ah, did you once see Shelley plain 

Ah, rich in sorrow thou 

Ah, sun-flower ! weary of time 

Ah, wasteful woman! — she who may 



Vol. 


Page 


40 


35 


28 


86 


6 


lOI 


6 


302 


18 


109 


41 


683 


6 


590 


41 


688 


40 


345 


42 


1060 


41 


761 


41 


803 


41 


870 


45 


687 


45 


580 


41 


893 


40 


321 


16 


II 


41 


956 


6 


225 


40 


265 


6 


291 


15 


359 


6 


500 


6 


64 


6 


455 


6 


306 


31 


246 


6 


200 


6 


267 


5 


207 


42 


1273 


40 


392 


6 


535 


41 


76c 


42 


1124 


19 


151 


41 


59^ 


28 


14S 



POEMS, SOXCtS, choruses, HTMXS AXD psalms 75 



IXDJLX TO THS Fll5T LiXES 



Vol. 


Page 


41 


922 


6 


25 


42 


IIOI 


40 


286 


40 


338 


42 


ioo6 


6 


203 


40 


412 


45 


-;i 


6 


298 


45 


705 


39 


340 


41 


721 


6 


V 


6 


226 


45 


740 


42 


nil 


6 


440 


6 


191 


6 


25 


6 


590 


15 


360 


6 


511 


14 


,^ 


6 


296 


6 


53 


6 


367 


42 


1491 


6 


381 


6 


581 


6 


456 


6 


522 


6 


31 


41 


644 


6 


200 


6 


441 


6 


369 


41 


954 


41 


805 


46 


172 



-Ail, iHiat avails the sceptred race 

Ah, woe is mc, my mother dear 

Ably Beacon, Airly Beacon 

Alas^ 'tis true I have gone here and there . 
Alexis, here she stayed; among these pines . 
An along the valley, stream that flashes: white . 

All hail, inexorable lord 

All in the Downs the fleet was moor'd .... 

All people Aat on earth do dwell 

A* tiic lads o* Thomiebank 

All tfiey who thoughtless are, nor heed .... 
All tilings are hush'd as Nature's self lay dead . 

An thouc^ts, all passions, all delights 

AH villain as I am, a damned wretch 

A* ye wha live by sowps o' drink 

An-conqaering have I now become, all-knowing . . 
All's over, then: does truth soimd bitter . . . . 
Ahlio' he has left me for greed o' the siller . . . 

Ahho' my back be at the wa' . 

Aldio' my bed were in yon muir 

Altlio' tiion mann never be mine 

AldxHis^ the Cross could not here Christ detain . 

Amang the trees where humming bees 

Amidst die silence of the darkest night .... 
Among the heathy hills and ragged woods . 

An honest man here lies at rest 

An somdxxfy were come again 

An old man bending I come among new faces . 
An ye had been whare I hae been ...... 

Ance crowdie, twice crowdie 

Ante mair I hail thee, thou gloomy December . . 

An' Charlie, he's my darling 

And m kiss thee yet, yet 

And is this — Yarrow? — This the stream . . . . 

And maon I still on Menie doat 

An* O for ane an' twenty, Tam 

An* O my Eppie, my jewel, my Eppie . . . . 
And therefore if to love can be desert, I am not all 

unworthy 

And thou art dead, as young and fair 

And will he not come again 



76 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


41 


955 


40 


195 


41 


593 


41 


956 


40 


224 


6 


326 


44 


149 


15 


270 


41 


870 


13 


75 


41 


870 


40 


326 


45 


556 


41 


926 


39 


319 


6 


453 


6 


504 


6 


62 


45 


770 


5 


222 


6 


268 


6 


Z17 


6 


534 


40 


222 


6 


512 


6 


513 


6 


26 


40 


75 


6 


581 


40 


290 


6 


43 


9 


132 


6 


435 


22 


7 


42 


1 167 


41 


841 


42 


1305 


6 


(^z 


44 


198 


IS 


342 


40 


312 



And wilt thou have me fashion into speech . ... 

And wilt thou leave me thus 

And ye shall walk in silk attire 

And yet, because thou overcomest so . . . . 

And yet I cannot reprehend the flight 

Anna, thy charms my bosom fire 

Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness 
Apples were they with which we were beguiled . 

Ariel to Miranda: — Take 

Arms, and the man I sing, who, forc'd by fate . 

Art thou pale for weariness 

Art thou poor, yet hast thou golden slumbers? . 

Art thou weary, art thou languid 

Artemidora ! Gods invisible 

As a huge stone is sometimes seen to lie . 

As cauld a wind as ever blew ....... 

As down the burn they took their way . . . . 

As father Adam first was fooled 

As flowers in rich profusion piled 

As Heaven and Earth are fairer far 

As I cam by Crochallan 

As I gaed down the water-side 

As I gaed up by yon gate-end 

As I in hoary winter's night 

As I stood by yon roofless tower 

As I stood by yon roofless tower 

As I was a-wand'ring ae morning in spring . . . 

As I was walking all alane 

As I was walking up the street 

As it fell upon a day 

As Mailie, an* her lambs thegither . . . * . 
As oft as she names Phaedria, you retort • 

As on the banks of winding Nith 

As one that for a weary space has lain . . . . 

As ships, becalmed at eve, that lay 

As slow our ship her foamy track 

As sunbeams stream through liberal space . . . 

As Tam the chapman on a day 

As the hart panteth after the water brooks . . . 

As virtuous men pass mildly away 

As virtuous men pass mildly away . . . . . 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 77 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



As well might corn, as verse, in cities grow . 
As when a wretch, who, conscious of his crime . 
As when it happeneth that some lovely town . 
As when the laboring Sun hath wrought his track . 
As when 'tis said, The tree bears fruit' .... 
As yielding wax the artist's skill commands . 
Ascribe unto Jehovah, O ye sons of the mighty . . 

Ask me no more where Jove bestows 

Ask not the cause why sullen Spring 

Ask why God made the gem so small 

At Brownhill we always get dainty good cheer . 
At Flores in the Azores, Sir Richard Grenville lay . 
At the corner of Wood Street, when daylight ap- 
pears 

At the last day, men shall wear 

At the last, tenderly 

At the mid hour of night, when stars are weeping, I 

fly . • • • • 

At the midnight in the silence of the sleep-time . 
Attend, all ye who list to hear our noble England's 

praise 

Auld chuckie Reekie's sair distrest 

Auld comrade dear, and brither sinner 

Avenge, O Lord, thy slaughtered Saints, whose 

bones 

Awake, Aeolian lyre, awake 

Awake, awake, my Lyre 

Awake, my St. John ! leave all meaner things . 
Away! the moor is dark beneath the moon . 

Awa' Whigs, awa' 

Awa' wi' your belles and your beauties 

Awa* wi' your witchcraft o' Beauty's alarms . 
Ay, flattering fortune, look you never so fair . 

Ay, tear her tattered ensign down 

Back and side go bare, go bare 

Balow, my babe, lie still and sleep 

Bannocks o' bear meal 

Bards of Passion and of Mirth 

Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me . 
Be merciful unto me, O God ; for man would swallow 

me up 



27 

24 
40 

3 
45 

9 
44 
40 
40 

6 

6 
42 

41 

5 

42 

41 
42 

41 
6 
6 

4 
40 
40 

40 

41 

6 

6 

6 

36 

42 

40 

40 

6 

41 

44 

44 



70 
32 

338 
297 
699 
317 
178 
361 
397 
429 
437 
1041 

671 

301 
1508 

843 
1155 

940 
281 

353 

86 
465 
374 
418 

877 
381 
500 
586 
130 

1443 
192 

189 

523 
896 
216 

215 



78 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


45 


572 


40 


216 


19 


81 


42 


1484 


6 


350 


42 


1 120 


42 


1226 


40 


203 


40 


225 


42 


1286 


42 


1098 


41 


966 


4 


82 


49 


321 


4 


46 


6 


49 


44 


319 


41 


670 


IS 


298 


44 


319 


6 


538 


6 


456 


6 


503 


40 


279 


41 


958 


41 


968 


6 


62 


41 


657 


41 


866 


42 


1347 


6 


427 


40 


346 


41 


785 


42 


1068 


44 


276 


44 


2^7 


6 


533 


44 


299 


44 


330 


44 


315 


44 


196 



Be not dismayed, thou little flock 

Be your words made, good Sir, of Indian ware . 

Bear, lady nightingale above 

Beat ! beat ! drums ! — blow ! bugles ! blow .... 

' Beauteous Rosebud, young and gay 

Beautiful Evelyn Hope is dead 

Beauty like hers is genius. Not the call .... 

Beauty sat bathing by a spring 

Beauty, sweet Love, is like the morning dew . 
Because I feel that, in the Heavens above . 
Because the few with signal virtue crowned . 
Because thou hast the power and own'st the grace . 
Because you have thrown off your Prelate Lord . 

Beer bring I to thee 

Before the starry threshold of Jove*s court . 

Behind yon hills where Lugar flows 

Behold, bless ye Jehovah, all ye servants of Jehovah 

Behold her, single in the field 

Behold, how fitly are the stages set 

Behold, how good and how pleasant it is . 
Behold, my love, how green the groves . . . . 

Behold the hour, the boat, arrive 

Behold the hour, the boat, arrive 

Being your slave, what should I do but tend . 

Beloved, my Beloved, when I think 

Beloved, thou hast brought me many flowers . 

Below thir stanes lie Jamie's banes 

Beneath these fruit-tree boughs that shed .... 

Best and Brightest, come away 

Between the dark and the daylight 

Beyond thee, dearie, beyond thee, dearie . . . . 

Bid me to live, and I will live 

Bird of the wilderness 

Birds in the high Hall-garden 

Bless Jehovah, O my soul 

Bless Jehovah, O my soul 

Bless Jesus Christ, O Cardoness 

Blessed are they that are perfect in the way . . . 

Blessed be Jehovah, my rock 

Blessed is every one that feareth Jehovah • . 
Blessed is he that considereth the poor . . . . 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 79 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven . 
Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel 

of the wicked 

Bless'd be the day that I began 

Blessings on thee, little man 

Blest be M'Murdo to his latest day 

Blest pair of Sirens, pledges of Heaven's joy . . 

Blow, blow, thou winter wind 

Blythe, blythe, and merry was she 

Blythe hae I been on yon hill 

Bonie lassie, will ye go 

Bonie wee thing, cannie wee thing 

Bonnie Kilmeny gaed up the glen 

Borders of kohl enhance the witchery of her glance 
Borgia, thou once wert almost too august . 
Bow down thine ear, O Jehovah, and answer me . 

Braw, braw lads on Yarrow-braes 

Break, break, break 

Brief life is here our portion 

Bright Star! would I were steadfast as thou art . 
Brightest and best of the sons of the morning . . 

Bring the bowl which you boast 

Build me straight, O worthy Master 

Burly, dozing humble-bee 

Busk ye, busk ye, my bonnie, bonnie bride . 

But do not let us quarrel any more 

But, knowing now that they would have her speak . 

But lately seen in gladsome green 

But only three in all God's universe 

But rarely seen since Nature's birth 

But souls that of his own good life partake . • . 
But warily tent when ye come to court me . . . 
But your allowance, and in that our all . . . . 
Buy braw troggin frae the banks o' Dee .... 

By all I lov'd, neglected and forgot 

By Allah ! good sir, I was not a robber .... 

By Allan stream I chanc'd to rove 

By cool Siloam's shady rill 

By love, and by beauty, by law, and by duty . 
By Oughtertyre grows the aik ....... 

By our first strange and fatal interview . . . . 



44 



182 



44 


147 


IS 


198 


42 


1431 


6 


496 


4 


41 


40 


273 


6 


301 


6 


493 


6 


292 


6 


428 


41 


774 


16 


381 


41 


929 


44 


256 


6 


481 


42 


1006 


45 


560 


41 


922 


45 


578 


41 


773 


42 


1332 


42 


1297 


41 


586 


42 


1 130 


42 


1230 


6 


538 


41 


950 


6 


589 


5 


137 


6 


499 


47 


899 


6 


587 


6 


345 


16 


137 


6 


498 


45 


577 


6 


369 


6 


302 


27 


284 



80 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page f 



By the cross, on which suspended ...... 

By the rivers of Babylon 

By the rude bridge that arched the flood . . . . 
By what word's power, the key of paths untrod . . 
By yon Castle wa', at the close of the day . . . 

Ca' the yowes to the knowes 

Ca' the yowes to the knowes 

Ca' the yowes to the knowes 

Call for the robin-redbreast and the wren . . . . 
Calm was the day, and through the trembling air . 

Can I cease to care 

Can it be right to give what I can give . . . . 

Canst thou leave me thus, my Katie 

Captain, or colonel, or knight in arms . . . . 
Care-charmer Sleep, son of the sable Night . . . 

Carle, an the King come 

Cast the bantling on the rocks 

Cauld blaws the wind frae east to west . . . . 

Cauld is the e'enin blast 

Cease, ye prudes, your envious railing 

Cheer up, my mates, the wind does fairly blow . . 

Cherry-ripe, ripe, ripe, I cry 

Chiefest glory of deathless Gods, Almighty for ever 
Child of Adam, let not hope make game of thee . . 

Christ is arisen 

Circulate it in the large cup 

Clarinda, mistress of my soul 

Cold and clear-cut face, why come you so cruelly 

meek 

Cold's the wind, and wet's the rain 

Cold's the wind, and wet*s the rain 

Coldly, sadly descends 

Come all ye jolly shepherds 

Come away, come away, Death 

Come, bumpers high, express your joy 

Come, dear children, let us away 

Come, gie's sang, Montgomerie cried 

Come hither, lads, and harken, for a tale there is 

to tell 

Come hither, you that walk along the way . . . 
Come into the garden, Maud 



45 

44 

42 

42 

6 

6 

6 

41 

40 

40 

6 

41 
6 

4 

40 

6 

5 
6 
6 
6 
40 
40 

2 

i6 

19 

i6 

6 

42 
40 
47 
42 
41 
40 
6 
42 

41 

42 
15 

28 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 81 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


42 


1082 


6 


501 


40 


200 


40 


259 


42 


i486 


28 


396 


40 


217 


42 


I33I 


41 


591 


46 


393 


42 


1009 


41 


515 


44 


309 


16 


331 


6 


542 


42 


1026 


42 


io8g 


40 


273 


45 


559 


42 


1 185 


39 


259 


4 


85 


40 


212 


6 


270 


6 


343 


4 


88 


4 


87 


6 


351 


40 


462 


4 


81 


42 


1294 


45 


563 


42 


1092 


44 


300 


6 


276 


40 


313 


6 


3S3 


6 


348 


6 


175 


40 


313 



Come into the garden, Maud 

Come, let me take thee to my breast 

Come Httle babe, come silly soul 

Come live with me and be my Love 

Come my tan-faced children 

Come, rest in this bosom, my own stricken deer . 
Come, Sleep; O sleep! the certain knot of peace . 

Come to me, O ye children 

Come under my plaidie, the night's gaun to fa' . 

Come unto these yellow sands 

Comrades, leave me here a little 

Condemn'd to Hope's delusive mine 

Consider mine affliction, and deliver me . . . . 
Consider what thou beholdest, O man . . . . 
Contented wi' little, and cantie wi' mair . . . . 
"Courage!" he said, and pointed toward the land . 

Courage, poor heart of stone 

Crabbed Age and Youth 

Creator Spirit, by whose aid 

Creep into thy narrow bed 

Criticks, I saw, that others' names efface . . . . 
Cromwell, our chief of men, who through a cloud . 

Cupid and Campaspe play'd 

Curse on ungrateful man, that can be pleased . 
Curs'd be the man, the poorest wretch in life . 
Cyriack, this three years' day these eyes, though 

clear 

Cyriack, whose grandsire on the royal bench . 

Daughter of Chaos' doting years 

Daughter of Jove, relentless power 

Daughter of that good Earl, once President . 
Daughter of Time, the hypocritic Days . . . . 
Day of wrath, that day whose knelling . . . . 

Dead, long dead 

Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live . 

Dear , I'll gie ye some advice 

Dear love, for nothing less than thee 

Dear Myra, the captive ribband's mine .... 

Dear Sir, at ony time or tide 

Dear Smith, the slee'st pawkie thief 

Death, be not proud, though some have called thee . 



82 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Death stands above me, whispering low . . . . 
Degenerate Douglas! oh, the unworthy lord . . . 

Deliberate, and haste not 

Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God . . . 
Deliver me, O Jehovah, from the evil man . . . 
Deluded swain, the pleasure ........ 

Depart from a place wherein is oppression . 

Diaphenia like the daffadowndilly 

Did I hear it half in a doze 

Dire was the hate at old Harlaw 

Dizzied faith and guilt and woe ...... 

Do ye indeed in silence speak righteousness . 

Do you remember me? or are you proud . . . . 

Does haughty Gaul invasion threat 

Does the road wind up-hill all the way . . . . 

Dost thou not rise, indignant shade 

Doth then the world go thus, doth all thus move . 

Doubt thou the stars are fire 

Doubt you to whom my Muse these notes intendeth . 

Down in yon garden sweet and gay 

Drink to me only with thine eyes 

Dulcinea here beneath 

Duncan Gray cam' here to woo 

Dweller in yon dungeon dark 

Each altar had his fire 

Earl March look'd on his dying child 

Earth has not anything to show more fair . 

Earth'd up, here lies an imp o' hell 

Edina! Scotia's darling seat 

E'en like two little bank-dividing brooks . . . . 

England, my England 

Erewhile of music, and ethereal mirth 

Eternal Spirit of the chainless Mind 

Ethereal minstrel ! pilgrim of the sky 

Even as the dense and solid rock 

Even as the word of chariot means 

Even in a palace life may be led well 

Even such is time, that takes in trust 

Ever let the Fancy roam 

Except Jehovah build the house 

Excuse me, sirs, I pray — I can't yet speak . . . 



Vol. 


Page 


41 


930 


41 


69s 


16 


164 


44 


218 


44 


326 


6 


506 


16 


300 


40 


233 


42 


1064 


6 


584 


28 


176 


44 


217 


41 


929 


6 


567 


42 


1229 


6 


475 


40 


33^ 


46 


120 


40 


213 


41 


510 


40 


298 


14 


542 


6 


476 


6 


344 


15 


347 


41 


796 


41 


689 


6 


533 


6 


264 


40 


350 


42 


1259 


4 


24 


41 


832 


41 


659 


45 


718 


45 


671 


42 


1 185 


40 


210 


41 


894 


44 


315 


18 


201 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 83 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



Expect na, sir, in this narration 

Faintly as tolls the evening chime 

Fair and fair, and twice so fair 

Fair Daffodils, we weep to see 

Fair Empress of the poet's soul 

Fair fa* your honest, sonsie face 

Fair is my Love and cruel as she's fair .... 
Fair is my love, when her fair golden hairs . 
Fair maid, you need not take the hint .... 

Fair pledges of a fruitful tree 

Fair stood the wind for France 

Fair the face of orient day 

Fairest maid on Devon banks 

Fairfax, whose name in arms through Europe rings . 

False friend, wilt thou smile or weep 

False world, good night! since thou hast brought . 

Fare thee well ! and if for ever 

Farewell to a* our Scottish fame 

Farewell, dear friend, may guid luck hit you . 

Farewell, master; farewell, farewell 

Farewell, old Scotia's bleak domains 

Farewell, rewards and fairies 

Farewell ! thou art too dear for my possessing . 
Farewell, thou fair day, thou green earth and ye skies 
Farewell, thou stream that winding flows .... 
Farewell to the Highlands, farewell to the north . 
Farewell, ye dungeons dark and strong .... 

Farewell, ye green meadows 

Fate gave the word, the arrow sped 

Father of light and life, thou Good Supreme . 

Fathers that wear rags 

Fear death? — to feel the fog in my throat . 

Fear no more the heat o' the sun 

Fill me with the rosy wine 

Fintry, my stay in worldly strife 

First time he kissed me, he but only kissed . 

First when Maggie was my care 

Five years have past; five summers, with the length 
Flee with thy life if thou fearest oppression . 
Flow gently, sweet Afton ! among thy green braes . 
Flower in the crannied wall 



6 


221 


41 


840 


40 


221 


40 


347 


6 


321 


6 


2^ 


40 


22^ 


40 


255 


6 


280 


40 


348 


40 


226 


6 


360 


6 


592 


4 


84 


18 


348 


40 


299 


41 


819 


6 


445 


6 


2Z2 


46 


412 


6 


235 


40 


2>2Z 


40 


2S2 


6 


452 


6 


543 


6 


384 


6 


313 


2(^ 


370 


6 


333 


I 


87 


46 


240 


42 


1 106 


40 


275 


6 


588 


6 


402 


41 


965 


6 


368 


41 


650 


16 


75 


6 


443 


42 


1039 



84 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Fly, envious Time, till thou run out thy race . 

Follow thy fair sun, unhappy shadow 

Follow your saint, follow with accents sweet . 

For a' that, an' a' that 

For 2l that, an' a' that 

For a' that, an' a' that 

For auld lang syne, my dear 

For ever, Fortune, wilt thou prove 

For ever, O Jehovah 

For he that can have good and evil doth choose . 

For lack of gold she's left me, O 

For lo ! thy law is passed 

For lords or kings I dinna mourn 

For never yet hath any one attained 

For oh, her lanely nights are lang 

For sense, they little owe to frugal Heav'n . 
For the tired slave, song lifts the languid oar . 

Fortress with turrets 

Forlorn, my love, no comfort near 

Forget not yet the tried intent 

For us, down beaten by the storms of fate . . . 

For thee is laughing Nature gay 

Fortune, that favors fools, these two short hours . 

Four and twenty bonny boys 

Four seasons fill the measure of the year .... 

Frae the friends and land I love 

Fresh from the dewy hill, the merry year . . . 

Fret not thyself because of evil-doers 

Friday first's the day appointed 

Friend of the Poet, tried and leal 

Friendship, mysterious cement of the soul . 
From Harmony, from heavenly Harmony . 
From midst the barren earth, here overthrown . 

From Sterling Castle we had seen 

From the forests and highlands 

From the white-blossom'd sloe my dear Chloris re- 
quested 

From thee, Eliza, I must go 

From those drear solitudes and frowsy cells . 
From you have I been absent in the spring . 
Full fathom five my father lies 



4 

40 

40 

6 

6 

6 

6 

40 

44 

14 

41 

6 
38 

6 

6 
23 
19 

6 

40 

9 

6 

47 
40 

41 
6 

41 

44 

6 

6 

6 

40 

14 

41 

41 

6 

6 

6 

40 

40 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 85 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. Page 



Full fathom five my father lies 

Full many a glorious morning have I seen . 

Full well thou know'st I love thee dear . . . . 

Fy, let us a' to Kirkcudbright 

Gane is the day, and mirk's the night 

Gat ye me, O gat ye me 

Gather ye rose-buds while ye may 

Gazing from each low bulwark of this bridge . 

Gem of the crimson-colour'd Even 

Get up, get up for shame ! The blooming morn . 

Gie him strong drink until he wink 

Gifts of one who loved me 

Give a man a horse he can ride 

Give all to love 

Give ear, O my people, to my l?,w 

Give ear, O shepherd of Israel 

Give ear to my prayer, O God 

Give ear to my words, O Jehovah 

Give me more love, or more disdain 

Give me my scallop-shell of quiet 

Give me patience, O Allah 

Give me the splendid silent sun with all his beams 

full-dazzling 

Give the king thy judgments, O God 

Gloom of the live-oaks, beautiful-braided and woven 

Gloomy winter's now awa* 

Glory be to God on high 

Glory of warrior, glory of orator, glory of song . 

Go and catch a falling star 

Go, fetch to me a pint o' wine 

Go from me. Yet I feel that I shall stand . . . 

Go, lovely Rose 

Go not, happy day 

Go now my little Book, to every place 

Go, Soul, the body's guest 

Go, wanton muse, but go with care 

God be merciful unto us, and bless us 

God is our refuge and strength 

God makes sech nights, all white an' still . 

God moves in a mysterious way 

. God prosper long our noble king 



46 


394 


40 


278 


6 


592 


6 


558 


6 


401 


6 


552 


40 


345 


41 


936 


41 


795 


40 


348 


6 


151 


5 


229 


42 


1 19s 


42 


1295 


44 


243 


44 


249 


44 


213 


44 


150 


40 


362 


40 


206 


16 


55 


42 


1295 


42 


1494 


44 


235 


42 


1470 


41 


608 


45 


553 


42 


1039 


40 


314 


6 


336 


41 


952 


40 


367 


42 


1074 


15 


171 


40 


207 


9 


259 


44 


226 


44 


203 


42 


1455 


45 


575 


40 


94 



86 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



God standeth in the Congregation of God . . . 

Goethe in Weimar sleeps, and Greece 

Gold and iron are good 

Good-bye, proud world! I'm going home . 
Good-morrow to the day so fair . 

Gracie, thou art a man of worth 

Grant me, indulgent Heaven, that I may live . . 

Great deeds of bale 

Great is Jehovah, and greatly to be praised . . . 
Great spirits now on earth are sojourning . 

Green grow the rashes, O 

Grow old along with me 

Gud*^ pity me, because I'm little 

Gudrun of old days 

Guid mornin' to your Majesty 

Guid speed and furder to you, Johnie 

Ha ! whaur ye gaun, ye crowlin ferlie 

Had I a cave on some wild distant shore . . . . 

Had I the wyte, had I the wyte 

Had I wept before she did 

Had we never loved sae kindly 

Hail ! beauteous Stranger of the wood . . . . 
Hail, famous man, whom fortune hath so blist . 
Hail, Native Language that by sinews weak . 

Hail, Poesie! thou Nymph reserv'd 

Hail, thairm-inspirin, rattlin Willie 

Hail to thee, blithe Spirit 

Half a league, half a league 

Hallow the threshold, crown the posts anew . 
Hame, hame, hame, O hame fain wad I be . 

Happy the man whose wish and care 

Happy those early days, when I 

Happy those which, for more commodity . . . . 
Happy were he could finish forth his fate . 
Hard Texts are Nuts (I will not call them cheaters) 
Hark, hark, my soul ! angelic songs are swelling . 
Hark ! hark ! the lark at heaven's gate sings . . . 

Hark! how all the welkin rings 

Hark! I hear the tramp of thousands . . . . . 

Hark the mavis' e'ening sang 

Harp of the North, farewell 1 The hills grow dark . 



44 
42 

5 
42 

40 

6 

6 

49 

44 

41 

6 

42 

6 

49 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

i6 

28 

41 

14 

4 

6 

6 

41 
42 

40 

41 
40 

40 

14 

40 

15 
45 
40 

45 

42 

6 
41 



252 

1181 

249 

1292 

344 

549 

488 

450 

205 

921 

50 

1 148 

127 

351 
217 
108 
198 
498 
566 

351 
88 

583 
17 
21 

434 
257 
851 
1039 
368 
802 
415 
357 
17 
294 
271 

584 

274 

574 
1482 

530 

773 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 87 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


4 


83 


6 


254 


41 


724 


45 


567 


44 


209 


46 


221 


40 


325 


6 


269 


15 


273 


42 


1352 


41 


765 


44 


264 


46 


252 


15 


245 


40 


360 


16 


203 


6 


64 


19 


35 


41 


573 


6 


448 


6 


369 


44 


220 


44 


274 


44 


329 


44 


223 


44 


161 


42 


1283 


44 


206 


45 


576 


6 


523 


42 


1275 


44 


158 


40 


330 


4 


31 


19 


58 


4 


35 


5 


286 


42 


1077 



Harry, whose tuneful and well-measured song . 

Has auld Kilmarnock seen the deil 

Hast thou a charm to stay the morning-star . . . 

Hasten, ye faithful, glad, joyful, and holy .... 

Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy 
loving-kindness 

Have more than thou showest 

Haymakers, rakers, reapers, and mowers .... 

He clenched his pamphlet in his fist 

He first by grace must conquer'd be 

He is dead, the beautiful youth 

He is gone on the mountain 

He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most 
High 

He that has and a little tiny wit 

He that is down needs fear no fall 

He that loves a rosy cheek 

He used his lances as pens 

He who of Rankine sang, lies stiff and dead . 

He whom we mourned as dead 

He's ower the hills that I lo'e weel 

Health to the Maxwell's veteran Chief .... 

Hear, land o* Cakes and brither Scots 

Hear my cry, O God 

Hear my prayer, O Jehovah 

Hear my prayer, O Jehovah ; give ear to my sup- 
plications 

Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint .... 

Hear the right, O Jehovah, attend unto my cry . 

Hear the sledges with the bells 

Hear this, all ye peoples 

Hear what God, the Lord, hath spoken .... 

Hee balow, my sweet wee Donald 

Helen, thy beauty is to me 

Help, Jehovah; for the godly man ceaseth . 

Hence, all yon vain delights 

Hence, loathed Melancholy 

Hence, overshadowing gloom 

Hence, vain deluding joys 

Hengist had verament 

Her brother is coming back to-night 



88 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Her daddie forbad, her minnie forbad 

Her flowing locks, the raven*s wing 

Her of your name whose fair inheritance . . 
Her skin is Hke silk and her speech is soft . 

Here a little child I stand 

Here, a sheer hulk, lies poor Tom Bowling . . . 
Here am I laid, my life of misery done .... 
Here awa, there awa, wandering Willie .... 
Here Brewer Gabriel's fire's extinct ..... 

Here cursing, swearing Burton lies 

Here, ever since you went abroad 

Here Holy Willie's sair worn clay 

Here is the glen and here the bower 

Here lie Willie Michie's banes 

Here lies a mock Marquis whose titles were 

shamm'd 

Here lies Boghead amang the dead 

Here lies John Busby, honest man 

Here lies Johnie Pigeon 

Here lies, now a prey to insulting neglect . 
Here lies old Hobson. Death hath broke his girt . 
Here lies our Sovereign Lord the King . . . . 

Here lieth Bernardone, ass and pig 

Here lieth one who did most truly prove . 

Here, of a loving swain 

Here Souter Hood in death doth sleep .... 

Here Stuarts once in glory reigned 

Here was a people whom after their works . 
Here, where the Scottish Muse immortal lives . 

Here, where the world is quiet 

Here will I hold. If there's a power above us . . 

Here's a bottle and an honest friend 

Here's a health to ane I loe dear ...... 

Here's a health to them tha's awa 

Here's to the maiden of bashful fifteen . . . . 
Here's to the maiden of bashful fifteen .... 

Here's to the year that's awa' 

Here's to thy health, my bonie lass 

Hey, ca' thro', ca' thro' 

Hey, the dusty Miller 

Hie upon Hielands • • • . 



6 
6 

15 
i6 

40 
41 

12 

6 
6 
6 

41 
6 
6 
6 

6 
6 
6 
6 
6 

4 
40 

31 
4 

14 
6 
6 

i6 
6 

42 
I 
6 
6 
6 

i8 

41 

41 
6 
6 
6 

40 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 89 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



High grace, the dower of queens; and therewithal . 

His face with smile eternal drest 

His foundation is in the holy mountains . . . . 

Hnikar I hight . . . . 

Hold, mighty man, I cry all this we know . 
Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise . . . . 
Holy amity! which, with nimble wings . . . . 

Holy, holy, holy! Lord God Almighty 

Home they brought her warrior dead 

Homer, thy song men liken to the sea 

Honest Will to Heaven's away 

Honor, riches, marriage-blessing 

How amiable are thy tabernacles 

How blest the happy solitude 

How can my poor heart be glad 

How cold is that bosom which folly once fired . 

How cruel are the parents 

How daur ye ca* me *'Howlet-face" 

How delicious is the winning 

How do I love thee? Let me count the ways . 
How fresh, O Lord, how sweet and clean . 
How good is it to pardon one able to resist . 

How happy is he born and taught 

How haps it, Rozinante, thou art so lean .... 

How hath time made me to tremble 

How lang and dreary is the night 

How, Liberty ! girl, can it be by thee named . 
How like a winter hath my absence been .... 

How long and dreary is the night 

How long, O Jehovah? wilt thou forget me for ever 

How many companies have alighted 

How many wretched persons are destitute of ease . 
How near to good is what is fair ...... 

How often have I stood in fight 

How pleasant the banks of the clear winding Devon 

How should I your true love know 

How should I your true love know 

How sleep the Brave, who sink to rest .... 
How soon hath Time, the subtle thief of youth . 

How sweet the answer Echo makes 

How vainly men themselves amaze 



42 


1227 


6 


343 


44 


257 


49 


309 


34 


147 


44 


289 


14 


251 


45 


577 


42 


1004 


22 


347 


6 


303 


46 


427 


44 


254 


45 


642 


& 


528 


6 


516 


6 


570 


6 


453 


41 


801 


41 


967 


40 


354 


16 


70 


40 


295 


14 


17 


16 


205 


6 


536 


6 


532 


40 


284 


6 


316 


44 


158 


16 


315 


16 


243 


5 


207 


16 


315 


6 


303 


40 


271 


46 


166 


41 


488 


4 


30 


41 


842 


40 


386 



90 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



How Wisdom and Folly meet, mix and unite . 
Humid seal of soft affections . . . . . . 

*'Husband, husband, cease your strife" .... 

I am a bard of no regard 

I am a fiddler to my trade 

I am a keeper of the law 

I am a mariner to love . 

I am a son of Mars who have been in many wars 

I am enamoured of her 

I am monarch of all I survey 

I am my mammy*s ae bairn 

I am not of the noble Grecian race 

I arise from dreams of Thee 

I arise from dreams of Thee 

I bought my wife a stane o' lint 

I bring fresh showers for the thirsting flowers . 
I call no Goddess to inspire my strains . . .' 

I Catherine am a Douglas born 

I coft a stane o* haslock woo 

I cry with my voice unto Jehovah 

I did but prompt the age to quit their clogs . . 

I die, and if I cannot be believed 

I do confess thou art sae fair 

I dream'd I lay where flowers were springing . 
I dream'd that as I wander'd by the way . . 

I du believe in Freedom's cause 

I fear thy kisses, gentle maiden 

I fee'd a man at Michaelmas 

I fill this cup to one made up 

I gaed a waefu' gate yestreen 

I gaed up to Dunse 

I gat your letter, winsome Willie 

I gazed upon the glorious sky 

I got me flowers to strew Thy way .... 
I had a dream, which was not all a dream . . 

I had sax owsen in a pleugh 

I hae a wife of my ain 

I hae been at Crookieden 

I hate the dreadful hollow behind the little wood 
I hate them that are of a double mind .... 
I have called with my whole heart 



6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 

14 

6 

i6 

41 
6 

12 

41 

28 

6 

41 
6 

42 
6 

44 
4 

14 
6 
6 

41 
42 

41 
6 

28 
6 
6 
6 

42 

40 

41 

6 

6 

6 

42 

44 

44 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 91 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



[ have done justice and righteousness .... 
[ have had playmates, I have had companions . 

[ have heard tell 

L have led her home, my love, my only friend . 
[ heard a thousand blended notes ..... 

heard the trailing garments of the Night . . 

hold it, sir, my bounden duty 

know a little garden-close 

know, Olalia, thou dost me adore .... 

know the thing that's most uncommon . 

lang hae thought, my youthfu' friend . 

lift my heavy heart up solemnly 

like a church; I like a cowl 

lived with visions for my company .... 

lo'ed ne'er a laddie but ane 

long to talk with some old lover's ghost . 

love, and he loves me again 

love Jehovah, because he heareth 

love thee, O Jehovah, my strength .... 

loved a lass, a fair one 

met a traveller from an antique land . . . 

mind it wee! in early date 

murder hate by flood or field ...... 

must not grieve my Love, whose eyes would read 

never gave a lock of hair away 

never saw a fairer 

once was a maid, tho' I cannot tell when . 

put my hat upon my head 

rede you, beware at the hunting, young men . 

remember, I remember 

said, I will take heed to my ways .... 

said — Then, dearest, since 'tis so 

saw him once before 

saw where in the shroud did lurk .... 

see a form, I see a face 

see thine image through my tears to-night . 

sing of a Whistle, a Whistle of worth . 

sprang to the stirrup, and Joris, and he . . . 

stood on the bridge at midnight 

strove with none; for none was worth the strife 

struck the board and cried, No more . . . 



44 


307 


41 


752 


49 


457 


42 


1074 


41 


659 


42 


1318 


6 


208 


42 


1241 


14 


89 


40 


416 


6 


212 


41 


951 


42 


1299 


41 


960 


41 


590 


40 


317 


40 


300 


44 


296 


44 


162 


40 


340 


41 


^7Z 


6 


270 


6 


400 


40 


225 


41 


957 


6 


472 


6 


130 


39 


303 


6 


274 


41 


935 


44 


193 


42 


1112 


42 


1444 


41 


754 


6 


575 


41 


962 


6 


384 


42 


1 107 


42 


1328 


41 


929 


40 


353 



92 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



I thank all who have loved me in their hearts . 
I think of thee ! — my thoughts do twine and bud . 
I thought of Thee, my partner and my guide . . 
I thought once how Theocritus had sung . 
I tore, I hackt, abolish'd, said and did .... 

I travell'd among unknown men 

I waited patiently for Jehovah 

I wander'd lonely as a cloud 

I was glad when they said unto me 

I was thy neighbour once, thou rugged Pile 

I was walking a mile 

I weep for Adonais — he is dead 

I, who erewhile the happy Garden sung .... 

I, who was late so volatile and gay 

I will bless Jehovah at all times 

I will cry unto God with my voice 

I will extol thee, my God, O King 

I will extol thee, O Jehovah; for thou hast raised 

me up 

I will give thanks unto Jehovah with my whole 

heart 

I will give thee thanks with my whole heart . 
I will lift up mine eyes unto the mountains . 
I will sing of lovingkindness and justice .... 
I will sing of the lovingkindness of Jehovah for 

ever ... 

I wish I were where Helen lies 

I wonder, by my troth, what thou and I . . . . 

I'll aye ca' in by yon town 

Fm now arrived — thanks to the gods 

I'm o'er young, I'm o'er young 

I'm sittin' on the stile, Mary 

I'm three times doubly o'er your debtor .... 

I'm wearing awa', Jean 

I've heard them lilting at our ewe-milking . . . 

I've seen the smiling 

If age brought nothing worse than this .... 

If all the world and love were young 

If aught of oaten stop or pastoral song .... 

If doughty deeds my lady please 

If from the public way you turn your steps . . . 



41 
41 
41 
41 
14 
41 
44 
41 
44 

41 

42 

41 

4 

18 

44 
44 
44 

44 

44 
44 
44 
44 

44 

40 

40 

6 

6 

6 

41 
6 

41 
41 
41 
9 
40 

41 
41 
41 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 93 



Index to the First Lines 



Tf I be possessed of wealth and be not liberal . . 
If I fail any day to render thee due thanks . 

If I freely can discover » 

If I have faltered more or less 

If I leave all for thee, wilt thou exchange . . . 
If I, my lord, could show to you the truth . 
If it had not been Jehovah who was on our side . 

If love were what the rose is 

If of love we complain, what shall we say . 

If one says "No," I answer "No" 

If the red slayer think he slays 

If thou chance for to find 

If thou must love me, let it be for nought . . . 

If thou should ask my love 

If Thou survive my well-contented day .... 

If to be absent were to be 

If women could be fair, and yet not fond . 

If ye gae up to yon hill-top 

If yet I have not all thy love 

If you rattle along like your Mistress's tongue . 

Ilk care and fear, when thou art near 

Ill-fated genius! Heaven-taught Fergusson . 

In a coign of the cliff between lowland and highland 

In a drear-nighted December 

In close intrigue, their faculty's but weak . . . 

In comin' by the brig o' Dye 

In days long gone 

In death for life I seek 

In going to my naked bed as one that would have 

slept 

In Jehovah do I take refuge 

In Judah is God known 

In London city was Bicham born 

In Love, if Love be Love, if Love be ours . 

In Manchline there dwells six proper young belles 

In my distress I cried unto Jehovah . . . . 

In Politics if thou would' st mix 

In proportion to one's labor, eminences are gained 
In Scotland there was a babie born .... 

In se'enteen hundred 'n forty-nine 

In simmer, when the hay was mawn . • . . 



Vol. 


Page 


l6 


211 


l6 


AO 


40 


307 


42 


126 1 


41 


964 


31 


255 


44 


313 


42 


1254 


16 


68 


9 


40 


42 


1294 


15 


402 


41 


955 


6 


363 


40 


277 


40 


366 


40 


296 


6 


24 


40 


316 


6 


517 


6 


31 


6 


458 


42 


1255 


41 


898 


5 


393 


6 


298 


49 


433 


14 


341 


40 


204 


44 


157 


44 


241 


40 


85 


42 


1006 


6 


62 


44 


3" 


6 


480 


16 


246 


40 


59 


6 


534 


6 


467 



94 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



In Tarbolton, ye ken, there are proper young men 

In the downhill of life, when I find I'm declining 

In the greenest of our valleys . 

In the highlands, in the country places 

In the merry month of May . 

In the midway of this our mortal life 

In the sweet shire of Cardigan . 

In thee, O Jehovah, do I take refuge 

In thee, O Jehovah, do I take refuge 

In this strange land, this uncouth clime 

In unploughed Maine he sought the lumberers' gang 

In vain to me the smiling mornings shine 

In wood and wild, ye warbling throng . 

In Xanadu did Kubla Khan 

In youth, when I did love, did love . 

Indeed this very love which is my boast . 

Inhuman man! curse on thy barb'rous art 

Instead of a song, boys, I'll give you a toast 

Into the proud erected diamond stock . 

Inverey cam doun Deeside, whistlin and playm 

Iphigeneia, when she heard her doom 

Is it indeed so? If I lay here dead 

Is it not better at an early hour . 

Is there a whim-inspired fool . 

Is there for honest Poverty . 

Is this thy plighted, fond regard 

It befell at Martynmas . 

It fell about the Lammus time . 

It fell about the Martinmas time 

It fell upon a holly eve . . . 

It is a beauteous evening, calm and free 

It is a good thing to give thanks unto Jehovah 

It is an ancient Mariner . 

It is na, Jean, thy bonie face . 

It is not beauty I demand . . 

It is not growing like a tree . . 

It is not to be thought of that the flood 

It little profits that an idle king 

It was a dismal and a fearful night 

It was a lover and his lass . 

It was a summer evening • • 



6 

41 
42 
42 
40 
20 

41 

44 

44 
6 

42 

39 
6 

41 
46 

41 
6 
6 

14 

40 

41 

41 

41 

6 

6 

6 

40 

40 

40 

40 

41 

44 

41 

6 

41 
40 

41 
42 

40 

40 

41 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 95 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



PAOt 



It was a* for our rightfu* King 

It was fifty years ago o . . . 

It was in and about the Martinmas time .... 
It was in sweet Senegal that my foes did me enthral 

It was many and many a year ago 

It was not like your great and gracious ways . . 

It was roses, roses, all the way 

It was the charming month of May 

It was the schooner Hesperus 

It was the winter wild 

It was three slim does and a ten-tined buck in the 

bracken lay 

It was upon a Lammas night 

Ithers seek they ken na what 

Jamie, come try me 

Jehovah answer thee in the day of trouble . 
Jehovah, how are mine adversaries increased . 
Jehovah, I have called upon thee ; make haste unto me 

Jehovah is my light and my salvation 

Jehovah is my portion 

Jehovah is my shepherd 

Jehovah, my heart is not haughty 

Jehovah reigneth; he is clothed with majesty . 
Jehovah reigneth; let the earth rejoice . . . . 
Jehovah reigneth ; let the peoples tremble .... 

Jehovah, remember for David 

Jehovah saith unto my lord. Sit thou at my right 

hand 

Jehovah, thou hast been favorable unto thy land . 
Jehovah, who shall sojourn in thy tabernacle . 

Jenny kissed me when we met 

Jerusalem the golden 

Jesu, the very thought of thee 

Jesus, lover of my soul 

Jesus shall reign where'er the sun 

Jesus, Thou Joy of loving hearts 

Jockey's taen the parting kiss 

John Anderson, my jo, John 

John Gilpin was a citizen 

Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an 

ungodly nation 



6 

42 
40 

6 
42 
42 
42 

6 
42 

4 

42 
6 
6 
6 
44 
44 
44 
44 
44 
44 
44 
44 
44 
44 
44 

44 
44 
44 
41 
45 
45 
45 
45 
45 
6 
6 
41 

44 



525 

1346 

69 

465 
1290 

1 158 
1 125 

539 

132 1 

8 

1474 

47 

469 

167 
148 
327 
175 
303 
171 

317 
266 
270 
271 
318 

291 

255 
160 

893 

561 
562 
572 
549 
563 
582 

365 
559 

199 



VOL. L — HC (4) 



96 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Judge me, O Jehovah, for I have walked in mine 

integrity 

Just for a handful of silver he left us 

Kathrina say 

Kemble, thou cur'st my unbelief 

Ken ye ought o' Captain Grose? — Igo and ago . . 

Kilmarnock wabsters, fidge an' claw 

Kind gentlemen and ladles fair 

Kind Sir, Fve read your paper through . . . . 

Know, Celia, since thou art so proud 

Know thou, O stranger to the fame 

Lady Onlie, honest lucky 

Lady ! that in the prime of earliest youth .... 

Lament him, Mauchline husbands a' 

Lament in rhyme, lament in prose 

Lassie wi* the lint-white locks 

Last May, a braw wooer cam doun the lang glen . 

Late at e'en, drinkin the wine 

Late crippl'd of an arm, and now a leg . . . . 
Late, late yestreen I saw the new Moon . . . . 
Lawrence, of virtuous father virtuous son . 

Lay a garland on my hearse 

Lead, kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom . 
Lead me, O God, and Thou, O Destiny . . . . 

Leeze me on drink! it gies us mair 

Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered . 
Let half-starv'd slaves in warmer skies . . . . 
Let ignorance a little while now muse . . . . 
Let India boast her palms, nor envy we ... . 
Let me not to the marriage of true minds . 

Let me ryke up to dight that tear 

Let my cry come near before thee, O Jehovah . 
Let not ambition mock their useful toil . . . . 

Let not Woman e'er complain 

Let other heroes boast their scars 

Let other poets raise a fracas 

Let others sing of Knights and Paladines . . . . 

Let schoolmasters puzzle their brain 

Let the Most Blessed be my guide 

Let the toast pass 

Let the world's sharpness, like a clasping knife . . 



44 
42 

19 
6 
6 
6 

19 

6 
40 

6 

6 

4 
6 
6 
6 
6 
40 
6 

41 

4 
40 

45 

2 

28 

44 
6 

15 

5 
40 

6 

44 

6 

6 

6 

6 
40 
18 

15 
18 

41 J 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 97 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



Let thy lovingkindnesses also come unto me, O 

Jehovah 

Let us begin and carry up this corpse 

Let us drink and be merry, dance, joke, and rejoice . 

Let us with a gladsome mind . 

Life! I know not what thou art 

Life ne'er exulted in so rich a prize 

Life of Life! Thy lips enkindle 

Light lay the earth on Billy's breast . . . . . 
Like as the Culver, on the bared bough .... 
Like as the waves make towards the pebbled shore 
Like some brave steeds that oft before .... 

Like to the clear in highest sphere 

Listen, my children, and you shall hear . . . . 
Listen to me, as when ye heard our father . 

Little I ask; my wants are few 

Little think'st thou, poor flower 

Live in these conquering leaves 

Lo, praise of the prowess of people-kings . 

Lo! 'tis a gala night 

Lo! where the four mimosas blend their shade . 

Lo! where the rosy-bosom'd Hours 

Lock the door, Lariston, lion of Liddisdale . 
Lone on the bleaky hills the straying flocks . 

Long expected one-and-twenty 

Long fed on boundless hopes, O race of man . 

Long have I sighed for a calm 

Long have I slept 

Long liie, my lord, an' health be yours .... 

Long, long the night 

Look not thou on beauty's charming 

Look, Nymphs and Shepherds, look 

Lord of all being, throned afar 

Lord Thomas and Fair Annet 

Lord, thou hast been our dwelling-place .... 
Lord, to account who dares thee call . . . , . 

Lord, we thank, and thee adore 

Lords, knights, and squires, the numerous band . 

Loth am I, sister 

Loud blaw the frosty breezes 

Louis, what reck I by thee .., • . ....*. 



44 


302 


42 


1 126 


40 


373 


4 


16 


41 


568 


6 


419 


41 


864 


6 


520 


40 


257 


40 


280 


9 


50 


40 


219 


42 


1348 


42 


1 105 


42 


1445 


40 


319 


40 


372 


49 


5 


42 


129 1 


41 


929 


40 


463 


41 


786 


6 


307 


41 


516 


42 


1 184 


42 


1056 


49 


320 


6 


215 


6 


569 


41 


765 


4 


43 


45 


584 


40 


61 


44 


262 


6 


488 


6 


490 


40 


406 


49 


385 


6 


305 


6 


334 



98 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


40 


351 


40 


220 


40 


412 


40 


218 


40 


334 


42 


1033 


40 


475 


6 


539 


40 


216 


40 


130 


41 


815 


44 


225 


44 


272 


44 


232 


7 


163 


6 


581 


5 


63 


41 


858 


44 


316 


41 


764 


6 


570 


40 


197 


41 


549 


42 


107 1 


42 


1427 


14 


16 


6 


532 


16 


143 


6 


502 


42 


T264 


4 


88 


41 


692 


43 


6 


41 


596 


42 


1061 


40 


ZV 


40 


254 


41 


688 


41 


925 


41 


1 919 



Love bade me welcome ; yet my soul drew back . 

Love guards the roses of thy lips 

Love in her eyes sits playing 

Love in my bosom like a bee 

Love not me for comely grace 

Love thou thy land, with love far-brought . 

Love thy country, wish it well 

Lovely was she by the dawn 

Loving in truth, and fain in verse my love to show . 

Lythe and listin, gentilmen 

Maid of Athens, ere we part 

Make a joyful noise unto God, all the earth . 
Make a joyful noise unto Jehovah, all ye lands . 

Make haste, O God, to deliver me 

Maker of all, the Lord 

Mally's meek, Mally's sweet 

Man is his own star; and the soul that can . 

Many a green isle needs must be 

Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth 

up ........ . 

March, march, Ettrick and Teviotdale . . . . 

Mark yonder pomp of costly fashion 

Martial, the things that do attain 

Mary! I want a lyre with other strings . . . . 

Maud has a garden of roses 

Maud Muller on a summer's day 

Maugre the ravings that are set abroach . . . . 

MaxvvTell, if here you merit crave 

May I lose my heart if it cease to love you . . 

Meet me on the warlock knowe 

Merrily swinging on brier and weed 

Methought I saw my late espoused saint . . . . 
Milton! Thou shouldst be living at this hour . . 

Mine adventure to the Meek One 

Mine be a cot beside the hill 

Morning arises stormy and pale 

Mortality, behold and fear 

Most glorious Lord of Lyfe! that, on this day . . 

Most sweet it is with unuplifted eyes 

Mother, I cannot mind my wheel 

Much have I travell'd in the realms of gold . . . 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 99 



Index to the First Lines 



Music, when soft voices die 

Musing on the roaring ocean 

My blessings on ye, honest wife 

My blessins upon thy sweet wee lippie 

My bonie lass, I work in brass 

My curse upon your venom'd stang 

My days among the Dead are past 

My dear and only Love, I pray 

My faith looks up to thee 

My father was a farmer upon the Carrick border, O 

My future will not copy fair my past 

My girl she's airy, she's buxom and gay . . . . 

My God, I love thee; not because 

My God, my God 

My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me . . 
My God, where is that ancient heat toward thee . 

My godlike friend — nay, do not stare 

My good blade carves the casques of men . . 

My hair is gray, but not with years 

My Harry was a gallant gay 

My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains . 

My heart is a-breaking, dear tittie 

My heart is fixed, O God 

My heart is sair — I dare na tell 

My heart is wae, and unco wae 

My heart leaps up when I behold 

My heart overfloweth with a goodly matter . 

My heart was ance as blithe and free 

My heart's in the Highlands, my heart is not here . 

My honor'd Colonel, deep I feel 

My lady's gown, there's gairs upon't 

My letters ! all dead paper, mute and white . 
My life has crept so long on a broken wing . 

My lord a-hunting he is gane 

My lord, I know, your noble ear 

My Love in her attire doth shew her wit .... 

My love, she's but a lassie yet 

My lov'd, my honor'd, much respected friend . 
My lute, be as thou wert when thou didst grow . . 

My mind to me a kingdom is 

My minnie does constantly deave me 



Vol. 


Page 


41 


878 


6 


319 


6 


276 


6 


26S 


6 


136 


6 


251 


41 


751 


40 


368 


45 


583 


6 


39 


41 


967 


6 


62 


45 


568 


15 


421 


44 


169 


15 


383 


6 


326 


42 


1036 


41 


821 


6 


378 


41 


899 


6 


366 


44 


288 


6 


545 


6 


299 


41 


615 


44 


202 


6 


312 


6 


384 


6 


585 


6 


275 


41 


961 


42 


1096 


6 


275 


6 


293 


40 


334 


6 


365 


6 


142 


40 


337 


40 


211 


28 


90 



100 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


41 


594 


19 


187 


41 


961 


19 


142 


40 


411 


6 


304 


41 


956 


6 


363 


D 


364 


41 


812 


6 


192 


44 


301 


44 


304 


44 


221 


40 


223 


14 


16 


40 


335 


40 


215 


41 


938 


6 


211 


6 


289 


41 


944 


49 


413 


45 


582 


42 


1 154 


16 


10 


6 


38 


6 


471 


42 


1 156 


40 


281 


6 


549 


6 


521 


41 


926 


41 


906 


6 


269 


6 


393 


6 


526 


6 


496 


42 


IIIO 


16 


63 



My mother bids me bind my hair 

My mother, the harlot 

My own beloved, who hast lifted me 

My peace is gone 

My Peggy is a young thing 

My Peggy's face, my Peggy's form 

My poet, thou canst touch on all the notes . 

My Sandy gied to me a ring 

My Sandy O, my Sandy O, 

My sister! my sweet sister! if a name . . . . . 

My son, these maxims make a rule 

My soul cleaveth unto the dust 

My soul fainteth for thy salvation 

My soul waiteth in silence for God only . . . . 
My spotless love hovers with purest wings . 
My sword could not at all compare with thine . 

My thoughts hold mortal strife . 

My true-love hath my heart, and I have his . 
Mysterious Night! when our first parent knew . 

Nae gentle dames, tho' ne'er sae fair 

Nae heathen name shall I prefix 

Nae shoon to hide her tiny taes 

Nay, with my goodwill 

Nearer, my God, to thee 

Never the time and the place 

Never trust in women ; nor rely upon their vows . 
No churchman am I for to rail and to write • 

No cold approach, no altered mien 

No coward soul is mine 

No longer mourn for me when I am dead .... 
No more of your guests, be they titled or not . 
No more, ye warblers of the wood! no more . 

No, my own love of other years 

No, no ! go not to Lethe, neither twist .... 
No sculptured marble here, nor pompous lay . 
No song nor dance I bring from yon great city . 

No Spartan tube, no Attic shell 

No Stewart art thou, Galloway 

Nobly, nobly Cape Saint Vincent to the North-west 

died away 

None keepeth a secret but a faithful person . . . 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 101 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


45 


692 


41 


843 


40 


393 


9 


137 


40 


279 


40 


285 


40 


301 


44 


295 


39 


343 


6 


555 


6 


544 


6 


196 


6 


540 


6 


420 


15 


168 


6 


99 


6 


502 


6 


292 


42 


1004 


6 


576 


45 


571 


4 


40 


40 


472 


41 


867 


49 


393 


6 


48 


41 


696 


6 


(^7 


16 


29 


6 


551 


41 


656 


6 


576 


41 


755 


32 


87 


6 


379 


6 


465 


42 


1496 


6 


348 


6 


(^z 


6 


406 


4 


18 






Nor grain, nor wealth, nor store of gold and silver . 
Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note . . . 

Not, Celia, that I juster am 

Not here and there, but everywhere 

Not marble, nor the gilded monuments . . . . 
Not mine own fears, nor the prophetic soul . 
Not to know vice at all, and keep true state . 

Not unto us, O Jehovah, not unto us 

Now daye was gone, and night was come . . . . 

Now haply down yon gay green shaw 

Now in her green mantle blythe Nature arrays . . 

Now, Kennedy, if foot or horse 

Now Nature deeds the flowery lea . . . . • 

Now Nature hangs her mantle green 

Now, Reader, I have told my Dream to thee . . . 

Now Robin lies in his last lair 

Now rosy May comes in wi' flowers . . . . . 

Now Simmer blinks on flowery braes 

Now sleeps the crimson petal, now the white . 
Now spring has clad the grove in green . . . . 

Now thank we all our God 

Now the bright morning-star. Day's harbinger . 

Now the golden Morn aloft 

Now the last day of many days 

Now this is my first counsel 

Now westlin winds and slaught'ring guns . 
Nuns fret not at their convent's narrow room . 

O a' ye pious godly flocks 

O angry fate, forbear 

O aye my wife she dang me 

O blithe new-comer! I have heard 

O bonie was yon rosy brier 

O Brignall banks are wild and fair 

O brother, rest from miserable me 

O cam ye here the fight to shun 

O can ye labour lea, young man 

O Captain! my Captain! our fearful trip is done . 

O could I give thee India's wealth 

O Death, had'st thou but spar'd his life . . . • 

O Death! thou tyrant fell and bloody 

O fairest flower, no sooner blown but blasted • . 



102 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



O for him back again 

O, for my sake do you with Fortune chide . 
O Friend ! I know not which way I must look . 
O Friends ! with whom my feet have trod . 
O give thanks unto Jehovah ; for he is good . 

O God, keep not thou silence . 

O God, the nations are come into thine inheritance . 
O God, thou art my God ; earnestly will I seek thee . 
O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast broken us 

down . . 

O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever . 

O goddess ! hear these tuneless numbers, wrung . 

O Gowdie, terror o' the whigs 

O gude ale comes and gude ale goes 

O had each Scot of ancient times 

O had the malt thy strength of mind 

O happy dames ! that may embrace 

O happy shades ! to me unblest 

O happy souls, which from this mortal vale . 

O have ye na heard o' the fause Sakelde .... 

O hearken, ye who speak the English Tongue . 

O how can I be blythe and glad 

O how much more doth beauty beauteous seem . 

O how shall I, unskilfu,' try . 

O if thou knew'st how thou thyself dost harm . 
O Jehovah, my God, in thee do I take refuge . 

O Jehovah, our Lord 

O Jehovah, rebuke me not in thine anger . 

O Jehovah, rebuke me not in thy wrath . • . . 

O Jehovah, the God of my salvation 

O Jehovah, thou God to whom vengeance belongeth 
O Jehovah, thou hast searched me, and known me . 
O ken ye what Meg o' the Mill has gotten . 

O Kenmure's on and awa, Willie 

O Lady Mary Ann looks o'er the Castle wa' . 

O lassie, are ye sleepin yet 

O lay thy loof in mine, lass 

O leave novels, ye Mauchline belles 

O leeze me on my spinnin-wheel 

O let me in this ae night 

O let the solid ground 



6 

40 

41 
42 

44 
44 
44 

44 



378 

287 
692 
1414 
285 
252 
248 
222 



44 


219 


44 


238 


41 


904 


6 


100 


6 


551 


6 


286 


6 


548 


40 


196 


41 


555 


14 


410 


40 


109 


49 


2^2 


6 


320 


40 


278 


6 


429 


40 


322 


44 


152 


44 


153 


44 


151 


44 


192 


44 


258 


44 


266 


44 


324 


6 


485 


6 


447 


6 


462 


6 


553 


6 


589 


6 


61 


6 


468 


6 


553 


42 


1068 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 103 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


47 


783 


41 


^7(^6 


6 


492 


41 


585 


6 


490 


6 


490 


6 


438 


41 


761 


6 


431 


42 


II54 


6 


32 


42 


1 102 


6 


454 


40 


289 


6 


440 


6 


141 


6 


483 


40 


267 


42 


1416 


6 


364 


6 


514 


40 


286 


4 


39 


6 


19 


6 


541 


6 


479 


44 


297 


6 


38 


6 


57 


41 


577 


6 


457 


6 


470 


6 


535 


6 


439 


41 


930 


28 


397 


40 


452 


6 


356 


41 1 


S7I 



O let us howl some heavy note 

O listen, listen, ladies gay 

O Logan, sweetly didst thou glide 

O Logie o' Buchan, O Logie the laird . . . . . 

O Lord, since we have feasted thus 

O Lord, when hunger pinches sore 

O lovely Polly Stewart 

O lovers' eyes are sharp to see 

O luve will venture in where it daur na weel be 

seen .... 

O lyric Love, half angel and half bird 

O Mary, at thy window be 

O Mary, go and call the cattle home ..... 

O May, thy morn was ne'er so sweet 

O me ! what eyes hath love put in my head . 

O meikle thinks my luve o' my beauty .... 

O merry hae I been teethin a heckle 

O mirk, mirk is this midnight hour ..... 
O Mistress mine, where are you roaming .... 

O Mother Earth ! upon thy lap 

O mount and go, mount and make you ready . 

O my Luve*s like a red, red rose 

O never say that I was false of heart 

O Nightingale that on yon blooming spray . 

O once I lov'd a bonie lass 

O Philly, happy be that day 

O poortith cauld, and restless love 

O praise Jehovah, all ye nations 

O raging Fortune's withering blast 

O rough, rude, ready-witted Rankine 

O rowan tree, O rowan tree ! thou'lt aye be dear to 

me 

O sad and heavy, should I part 

O saw ye bonie Lesley . 

O saw ye my Dear, my Philly . 

O saw ye my dearie, my Eppie Macnab .... 

O saw ye not fair Ines 

O saw ye not fair Ines 

O say what is that thing call'd Light 

O sing a new song to the Lord 

O sing unto my roundelay 



104 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



O snatch'd away in beauty's bloom .... 
O soft embalmer of the still midnight . . . 
O stay, sweet warbling woodlark, stay . 
O steer her up, an' baud her gaun .... 

O stream descending to the sea 

O swallow, swallow, flying, flying South . 

O sweet and constant hope 

O talk not to me of a name great in story . 
O that I had ne'er been married .... 

O that 'twere possible 

O that's the lassie o' my heart 

O the month of May, the merry month of May 

O Thou dread Power, who reign'st above . 

O Thou Great Being! what Thou art . . . 

O Thou, in whom we live and move . 

O thou pale orb that silent shines .... 

O thou, that sitt'st upon a throne .... 

O Thou, the first, the greatest friend . 

O Thou unknown. Almighty Cause .... 

O Thou ! whatever title suit thee .... 

O Thou, who in the heavens does dwell . 

O Thou who kindly dost provide .... 

O thou whom Poesy abhors 

O thou with dewy locks, who lookest down . 

O Tibbie, I hae seen the day 

O, to be in England 

O waly waly up the bank 

O wat ye wha that loes me 

O wat ye wha's in yon town 

"O well's me o' my gay goss-hawk" . . . 

O were I on Parnassus hill 

O were my love yon Lilac fair 

O wert thou in the cauld blast 

O wert thou. Love, but near me ... . 
O wha my babie-clouts will buy? .... 
O wha will shoe my fu fair foot .... 
O wha will to Saint Stephen's House . . . 

O what a plague is love . 

O what can ail thee, knight-at-arms . . . 

O when shall I a mansion give 

O when she cam' ben she bobbed fu' law . . 



41 
41 
6 
6 
42 
42 

14 

41 

6 

42 
6 

47 
6 
6 
6 
6 

41 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 

41 
6 

42 

40 
6 
6 

40 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 

40 
6 

40 

41 

45 

6 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 105 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


6 


499 


6 


480 


6 


38 


41 


856 


6 


Zl(i 


6 


364 


41 


864 


15 


70 


45 


552 


14 


239 


6 


192 


6 


54 


41 


553 


6 


Z^Z 


40 


414 


6 


52 


42 


1434 


41 


968 


42 


1240 


6 


453 


4 


90 


41 


798 


41 


517 


40 


ZZ^ 


41 


SZ7 


42 


1343 


42 


1194 


44 


204 


44 


268 


27 


322 


42 


1 122 


44 


279 


44 


297 


44 


321 


44 


305 


6 


524 


6 


484 


44 


269 


44 


271 


42 


1272 


41 


556 



O whistle an* I'll come to ye, my lad .... 
O why should Fate sic pleasure have .... 

O why the deuce should I repine 

O wild West Wind, thou breath of Autumn's being 

O, Willie brew'd a peck o' maut 

O wilt thou go wi' me, sweet Tibbie Dunbar . 

O World ! O Life ! O Time 

O world of wonders! (I can say no less) . 
O worship the King all glorious above . 

O ye plants, ye herbs, and ye trees 

O ye wha are sae guid yoursel' 

O ye whose cheek the tear of pity stains . 

Obscurest night involved the sky 

Of a' the airts the wind can blaw 

Of all the girls that are so smart ..... 
Of all the numerous ills that hurt our peace . 
Of all the rides since the birth of time . 
Of all the thoughts of God that are .... 
Of Heaven or Hell I have no power to sing . 

Of Lordly acquaintance you boast 

Of man's first disobedience and the fruit . 

Of Nelson and the North 

Of old, when Scarron his companions invited . 
Of this fair volume which we World do name . 

Oft in the stilly night 

Often I think of the beautiful town .... 

Oh, a dainty plant is the Ivy green 

Oh clap your hands, all ye peoples 

Oh come, let us sing unto Jehovah 

Oh for my sake do you with Fortune chide . 
Oh Galuppi, Baldassare, this is very sad to find . 
Oh give thanks unto Jehovah, call upon his name 
Oh give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good . 
Oh give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good . 

Oh how love I thy law . • 

Oh I am come to the low Countrie 

Oh, open the door, some pity to shew .... 

Oh sing unto Jehovah a new song 

Oh sing unto Jehovah a new song 

Oh, slow to smite and swift to spare .... 
Oh that those lips had language! 



106 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Oh, the auld house, the auld house 

Oh, yes ! They love through all this world of ours . 
Oh ! young Lochinvar is come out of the West . . 
Old Chronos once took queen Sedition to wife . . 

Old Grahame he is to Carlisle gone 

Old Winter, with his frosty beard 

On a bank of flowers on a summer day .... 

On a day, alack the day! 

On a Poet's lips I slept 

On Cessnock banks a lassie dwells 

On either side the river lie 

On his lips Persuasion hung 

On Linden, when the sun was low 

On parent knees, a naked new-born child .... 

On peace an' rest my mind was bent 

On the brink of the night and the morning . . . 
On the heights peals the thunder, and trembles the 

bridge 

On the Sabbath-day 

On the seas and far away 

On these white cliffs, that calm above the flood . . 
Once did She hold the gorgeous East in fee . . . 
Once fondly lov'd, and still remembered dear . 

Once in a cellar lived a rat 

Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, 

weak and weary 

One day I wrote her name upon the strand . . . 

One more Unfortunate 

One more Unfortunate 

One night as I did wander 

One Queen Artemisia, as old stories tell .... 

One word is too often profaned 

One's-self I sing, a simple separate person . 
Oppress'd with grief, oppress'd with care .... 
Or love of understanding quite is void .... 
Orthodox ! orthodox, who believe in John Knox . . 
Others abide our question. Thou art free .... 

Our band is few but true and tried 

Our bugles sang truce, for the night-cloud had 

lower'd 

Our God, our help in ages past . ,• • . .• • . 



Vol. 


Page 


41 


574 


41 


966 


41 


1^ 


12 


39 


40 


123 


6 


507 


6 


361 


40 


272 


41 


878 


6 


29 


42 


997 


9 


217 


41 


800 


41 


593 


6 


551 


28 


90 


26 


370 


42 


1 192 


6 


528 


41 


697 


41 


691 


6 


231 


19 


82 


42 


1276 


40 


256 


41 


932 


28 


398 


6 


97 


6 


(^Z 


41 


873 


42 


1483 


6 


206 


14 


202 


6 


371 


42 


1 175 


42 


1266 


41 


789 


45 


550 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 107 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


i6 


83 


6 


381 


44 


317 


42 


1258 


6 


422 


40 


363 


40 


388 


40 


324 


41 


96s 


12 


24 


6 


399 


40 


339 


41 


762 


42 


1437 


41 


599 


18 


lOI 


40 


408 


15 


137 


6 


260 


40 


288 


16 


136 


44 


224 


6 


510 


44 


293 


44 


333 


44 


292 


44 


282 


44 


336 


44 


332 


44 


293 


44 


334 


44 


320 



Our signal in love is the glance of our eyes . 

Our thrissles flourish'd fresh and fair 

Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O Jehovah 

Out of the night that covers me 

Out over the Forth, I look to the North .... 

Out upon it, I have loved 

Over the mountains 

Pack, clouds, away, and welcome day 

Pardon, oh, pardon, that my soul should make . 
Pausanias you may praise, and Xanthippus he be for 

Peg Nicholson was a good bay mare 

Phoebus, arise 

Pibroch of Donuil Dhu 

Pipes of the misty moorlands 

Piping down the valleys wild 

Poets, like disputants, when reasons fail . . . . 

Poor, little, pretty, fluttering thing 

Poor Little-faith ! Hast been among the Thieves . 
Poor naked wretches, whereso'er you arc .... 
Poor Soul, the centre of my sinful earth . . . . 
Poverty causeth the lustre of a man to grow dim . 
Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Zion . . . . 
"Praise Woman still," his lordship roars . . . . 
Praise ye Jehovah 

Blessed is the man that feareth Jehovah . . . . 
Praise ye Jehovah 

For it is good to sing praises 

Praise ye Jehovah 

I will give thanks unto Jehovah 

Praise ye Jehovah 

Oh give thanks unto Jehovah 



Pra 
Pra 
Pra 
Pra 
Pra 
Pra 
Pra 
Pra 
Pra 
Pra 



se ye Jehovah 

se God in his sanctuary . 

se ye Jehovah 

se Jehovah, O my soul . . . 

se ye Jehovah 

se, O ye servants of Jehovah . 

se ye Jehovah 

se ye Jehovah from the heavens 

se ye Jehovah 

se ye the name of Jehovah . . 



108 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



Praise ye Jehovah 

Sing unto Jehovah a new song 

Preserve me, O God; for in thee do I take refuge . 
Princes have persecuted me without a cause . 

Proud Maisie is in the wood 

Proud word you never spoke, but you will speak . 

Put forth thy leaf, thou lofty plane 

Queen and Huntress, chaste and fair 

Ranged thus for battle on the sacred plain . . . 

Rarely, rarely comest thou 

Rash mortal, and slanderous poet, thy name . . . 

Raving winds around her blowing 

Reader, I am to let thee know 

Rejoice in Jehovah, O ye righteous 

Religion ! what treasure untold 

Remember me when I am gone away 

Remember the word unto thy servant 

Remote, unfriended, melancholy, slow 

Restore to my eyelids the sleep which hath been 

ravished 

Revered defender of beauteous Stuart 

Riches I hold in light esteem 

Right, sir! your text I'll prove it true 

Righteous art thou, O Jehovah 

Ring out, your bells, let mourning shews be spread . 
"Rise up, rise up, now. Lord Douglas," she says . 

Rivulet crossing my ground 

Robin shure in hairst 

Robin was a roving boy 

Roman Virgil, thou that singest Ilion*s lofty temples 

robed in fire 

Round the cape of a sudden came the sea . 
Rudely thou wrongest my dear heart's desire . 

Ruin seize thee, ruthless King 

Rusticity's ungainly form 

Sabrina fair 

Sad thy tale, thou idle page 

Sae flaxen were her ringlets 

Sae rantingly, sae wantonly 

Satyr-king, instead of swords 

Save m«, O God 



44 


335 


44 


i6o 


44 


310 


41 


764 


41 


923 


42 


1 166 


40 


306 


45 


801 


41 


847 


6 


291 


6 


315 


15 


373 


44 


183 


39 


310 


42 


1228 


44 


302 


41 


532 


i6 


68 


6 


279 


42 


1157 


6 


235 


44 


308 


40 


214 


40 


51 


42 


1082 


6 


342 


6 


98 


42 


105 1 


42 


nil 


40 


256 


40 


468 


6 


260 


4 


69 


6 


286 


6 


531 


6 


313 


12 


73 


44 


230 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 109 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



Save me, O God, by thy name 

Say not the struggle naught availeth 

Say over again, and yet once over again .... 

Say, sages, what's the charm on earth 

Scorn' d, to be scorn'd by one that I scorn .... 

Scots, wha hae wi' Wallace bled 

Search while thou wilt, and let thy reason go . 

Searching auld wives' barrels 

Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness .... 

See how the flowers, as at parade 

See the Chariot at hand here of Love 

See the smoking bowl before us 

See what a lovely shell 

See where she sits upon the grassie greene . 

See with what simplicity • . 

Sensibility, how charming 

Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? . . . . 

Shall I, wasting in despair 

Shall they who wrong begin yet rightly end . 

She came to the village church 

She dwelt among the untrodden ways 

She is a winsome wee thing 

She is not fair to outward view 

She walks in beauty, like the night ..... 

She was a phantom of delight 

She was so fair 

She which you view, with triple face and sheen . 
She's fair and fause that causes my smart . 

Shepherd of tender youth 

Should auld acquaintance be forgot 

Shouldst thou think upon me after the length of my 

age .... 

Shrewd Willie Smellie to Crochallan came . 
Sic a reptile was Wat, sic a miscreant slave . 

Sick, am I sick of a jealous dread 

Sigurd of yore 

Since all that I can ever do for thee 

Since brass, nor stone, nor earth, nor boundless sea . 
Since cruel thou (I publish) dost desire . . . . 

Since I am coming to that holy room 

Since, then, such blessings manifold 



44 
42 

41 
6 

42 
6 

3 

6 

41 
40 

40 
6 
42 
40 
40 
6 

40 
40 

15 
42 

41 
6 

41 
41 
41 

5 
14 

6 

45 
6 

16 
6 
6 

42 

49 
42 
40 
14 
15 
45 



212 

1 165 
958 

589 
1070 

502 
277 
375 
903 
379 
297 

139 
1086 

250 

379 

452 
276 

341 

46 

1065 

685 

472 

937 
809 
667 
287 
540 
347 
553 
335 

318 
268 

517 
1066 

396 
1 165 
280 
109 
360 
755 



110 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



Since there^s no help, come let us kiss and part . . 

Sing aloud unto God our strength 

Sing hey my braw John Highlandman .... 

Sing lullaby, as women do 

Sing on, sweet thrush, upon the leafless bough . . 

Sir, as your mandate did request 

Sir, o'er a gill I gat your card 

Sir Wisdom's a fool when he's fou 

Sir, yours this moment I unseal 

Sleep on, and dream of Heaven awhile .... 
Sleep'st thou, or wak'st thou, fairest creature . . 
So all day long the noise of battle roll'd .... 

So dark a mind within me dwells 

So every spirit, as it is most pure 

So oft as I her beauty do behold 

Soft on the fell 

Some books are lies frae end to end 

Some say the Pilgrim's Progress is not mine . . 
Sometimes thou seem'st not as thyself alone . . 

Souls of Poets, dead and gone 

Sound, sound the clarion, fill the fife 

Spring, the sweet Spring, is the year's pleasant king 
St. Agnes's Eve! — ah, bitter chill it was . . . . 

Stand close around, ye Stygian set • 

Star that bringest home the bee 

Stars of the summer night 

Stay, my charmer, can you leave me 

Stay, O sweet, and do not rise 

Stern Daughter of the voice of God 

Still anxious to secure your partial favour . 

Still to be neat, still to be drest . 

"Stop thief!" dame Nature call'd to Death . . . 

Strait is the spot and green the sod 

Strange, that I felt so gay 

Streams that glide in orient plains 

Strew on her roses, roses 

Strive thou, O Jehovah, with them that strive with me 

Sun of my soul, Thou Saviour dear 

Sunset and evening star 

Sunshine was he 

Sure never were seen two such beautiful ponies . 



40 


232 


44 


251 


6 


133 


40 


198 


6 


481 


6 


194 


6 


197 


6 


132 


6 


210 


41 


596 


6 


537 


42 


1019 


42 


1072 


5 


173 


40 


255 


49 


318 


6 


79 


15 


323 


42 


1227 


41 


898 


41 


766 


40 


266 


41 


907 


41 


924 


41 


790 


42 


1325 


6 


314 


40 


318 


41 


665 


6 


508 


40 


297 


6 


520 


6 


283 


42 


1080 


6 


297 


42 


1 175 


44 


186 


45 


579 


42 


1098 


5 


60 


i8 


128 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 111 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



glade 



Surely God is good to Israel . . . 
Surprised by joy — impatient as the wind 
Swallow, my sister, O sister swallow . 
Sweet and low, sweet and low . 
Sweet are the banks — the banks o* Doon 
Sweet are the thoughts that savour of content 
Sweet Auburn! loveliest village of the plain 
Sweet, be not proud of those two eyes . 
Sweet closes the ev'ning on Craigieburn Wood 
Sweet day, so cool, so calm, so bright . 
Sweet dimness of her loosened hair's downfall 
Sweet Echo, sweetest Nymph, that liv'st unseen 
Sweet fa's the eve on Craigieburn . 
Sweet flow'ret, pledge o' meikle love . 
Sweet Highland Girl, a very shower . 

Sweet naivete of feature 

Sweet stream, that winds through yonder 
Sweetest love, I do not go ... . 
Swiftly walk over the western wave . 
Symmetrical, and square in shape 
Take, O take those lips away . 
Talk not to me of savages .... 
Tarn Samson's weel-worn clay here lies 
Tanagra, think not I forget .... 
Tax not the royal Saint with vain expense . 

Teach me, my God and King 

Teach me, O Jehovah, the way of thy statutes 
Tears, idle tears, I know not what they mean 
Tears, idle tears, I know not what they mean 

Tell me. Muse, of that man 

Tell me not, in mournful numbers . 
Tell me not of a face that's fair . . 
Tell me not, Sweet, I am unkind . 
Tell me, thou Star, whose wings of light . 

Tell me where is Fancy bred 

Tell me, ye prim adepts in Scandal's school 

Thank Heaven! the crisis 

That sir which serves and seeks for gain . 
That there is a falsehood in his looks. 
That time of year thou may'st in me behold 
That which her slender waist confined 



44 
41 

42 

42 
6 
40 
41 
40 
6 
40 
42 

4 
6 
6 

41 
6 

41 
40 

41 
45 
40 
6 
6 
41 
41 
40 

44 

42 

28 
22 

42 
40 
40 

41 
40 
18 
42 
46 
6 

40 
40 



236 

690 

1249 

1002 

422 

289 

521 

345 

427 

351 

1227 

52 

547 
418 
668 
475 
547 
315 
854 
704 

2'J2 
589 
257 
924 
694 
352 
301 
1002 
402 

9 
1316 

378 

364 

879 

268 

105 

1287 

241 

533 
282 



112 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



That's my last Duchess painted on the wall . 

The Assyrian came down like the wolf on the fold . 

The bairns gat out wi' an unco shout 

The battle on Thermodon that shall be ... . 

The blast from Freedom's Northern hills, upon its 
Southern way 

The blear-eyed escapeth a pit into which the clear- 
sighted falleth 

The blessed Damozel lean'd out 

The blude-red rose at Yule may blaw 

The bonie lass made the bed to me 

The Brahman who his evil traits hath banished . 

The bride cam' out o' the byre 

The cardin o't, the spinnin o't 

The castled crag of Drachenfels 

The Catrine woods were yellow seen 

The clatt'ring thunderbolt that did adorn . . . . 

The cock is crowing 

The cod-piece that will house 

The Cooper o* Cuddy came here awa 

The crimson light of sunset falls 

The curfew tolls the knell of parting day . 

The day is cold, and dark, and dreary 

The day is done, and the darkness 

The day is done, and the darkness 

The day is past and over 

The day returns, my bosom burns 

The deil cam fiddlin thro' the town 

The deil's awa, the deil's awa 

The Devil got notice that Grose was a-dying . 

The dusky night rides down the sky 

The earth is Jehovah's ; and the fulness thereof . . 

Th' expense of Spirit in a waste of shame . 

The face of all the world is changed, I think . . . 

The fault was mine, the fault was mine . . . . 

The first time that the sun rose on thine oath . . 

The flame flared at its maddest 

The flower it blaws, it fades, it fa's 

The fool hath said in his heart. There is no God . 

The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God . 

The forward youth that would appear 



42 


HIS 


41 


804 


6 


466 


12 


212 


42 


1419 


iC 


130 


42 


1196 


6 


319 


6 


565 


45 


641 


41 


580 


6 


563 


41 


818 


6 


115 


14 


540 


41 


619 


46 


251 


6 


564 


42 


1247 


40 


455 


42 


1326 


42 


1326 


28 


391 


45 


554 


6 


331 


6 


467 


6 


467 


6 


371 


41 


513 


44 


172 


40 


288 


41 


952 


42 


1085 


41 


963 


49 


ZZ7 


6 


438 


44 


159 


44 


211 


40 


381 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 113 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


41 


854 


6 


510 


25 


404 


41 


647 


6 


250 


40 


359 


12 


lOI 


14 


331 


45 


700 


41 


840 


6 


274 


44 


166 


15 


46 


41 


833 


45 


548 


49 


97 


44 


168 


40 


75 


6 


490 


6 


392 


41 


576 


6 


2%'J 


6 


318 


40 


364 


40 


335 


6 


491 


6 


ZZZ 


15 


210 


6 


521 


45 


738 


6 


34 


40 


293 


45 


728 


46 


408 


40 


407 


44 


207 


16 


345 


41 


794 


42 


1 160 


41 


578 


42 


1317 



The fountains mingle with the river 

The friend whom, wild from Wisdom's way . . . 

The future hides in it 

The gallant Youth, who may have gained . . . 

The gloomy night is gathering fast 

The glories of our blood and state 

The Greeks, when by their courage and their might 
The grief increaseth, and withal the shame . 
The Groups break up, and only they, the wise say . 
The harp that once through Tara's halls . . . . 
The heather was blooming, the meadows were mawn 
The heavens declare the glory of God . . . . 

The Hill, tho' high, I covet to ascend 

The isles of Greece! the isles of Greece . . . . 

The King of love my shepherd is 

The king our Emperor Carlemaine 

The King shall joy in thy strength, O Jehovah . 

The king sits in Dumferling toune 

The King's most humble servant I 

The Laddies by the banks o' Nith 

The Laird o' Cockpen, he's proud and he's great . 
The lamp of day with ill-presaging glare .... 

The lang lad they ca' Jumpin John 

The lark now leaves his wat'ry nest . . ... 
The last and greatest Herald of Heaven's King . 

The last time I came o'er the moor 

The lazy mist hangs from the brow of the hill . 

The Lord is only my support 

The lovely lass of Inverness 

The Magadhaus hold hitherto a doctrine .... 

The man, in life wherever plac'd 

The man of life upright 

The man whose mind, like to a rock 

The master, the swabber, the boatswain and I . 

The merchant, to secure his treasure 

The Mighty One, God, Jehovah, hath spoken . . . 
The moon becometh perfect once each month . 

The more we live, more brief appear 

The murmur of the mourning ghost 

The news frae Moidart cam' yestereen .... 
The night is come, but not too soon 



114 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



The night is come, like to the day 

The night was still, and o'er the hill 

The noble Maxwells and their powers . . . . . 

The play is done; the curtain drops 

The poetry of earth is never dead 

The poor man weeps — here Gavin sleeps . . . . 

The poplars are feird, farewell to the shade . . . 

The red rose whispers of passion 

The Robin to the Wren's nest 

The rounded world is fair to see 

The sacred lowe o' weel-placed love 

The sea is calm to-night 

The series which doth bear a fruit 

The shadows lay along Broadway 

The shepherd for the dance was dress'd . . . . 

The simple bard, rough at the rustic plough . 

The simple bard, unbroke by rules of art . . . . 

The skies they were ashen and sober . . . . . 

The small birds rejoice in the green leaves return- 
ing . 

The smile-dimpled lake woo'd to bathe in its deep . 

The smiling Spring comes in rejoicing . . . . 

The Solemn League and Covenant 

The soul's Rialto hath its merchandise . . . . 

The spacious firmament on high 

The spacious firmament on high 

The splendor falls on castle walls 

The sun descending in the west ...... 

The sun had clos'd the winter day 

The sun has gane down o'er the lofty Benlomond . 

The sun he is sunk in the west 

The sun, in ancient guise, competing . . . . . 

The sun is warm, the sky is clear 

The sun set; but set not his hope 

The sun, the moon, the stars, the seas, the hills and 
the plains • 

The sun upon the lake is low 

The sun (which doth the greatest comfort bring,) . 

The Sundays of man's life 

The Thames flows proudly to the sea 

The thirsty earth soaks up the rain 



Vol. 


Page 


3 


343 


6 


249 


6 


444 


42 


1099 


41 


919 


6 


230 


41 


547 


42 


1246 


6 


580 


5 


233 


28 


86 


42 


1 183 


45 


699 


28 


386 


19 


41 


6 


242 


6 


232 


42 


1281 


6 


322 


26 


370 


6 


442 


6 


548 


41 


957 


40 


410 


45 


547 


42 


1003 


41 


599 


6 


180 


41 


608 


6 


22 


19 


16 


41 


848 


5 


191 


42 


1038 


41 


772 


40 


328 


15 


421 


6 


3^2 


40 


375 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 115 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



The transgression of the wicked saith within my 
heart ... 

The tree of deepest root is found ...... 

The tryals that those men do meet withal . 

The twentieth year is well-nigh past 

The valiant, in himself, what can he suffer . 

The valiant warrior famoused for fight .... 

The victory now hath this illustrious Buddha won . 

The wean wants a cradle . 

The weary pund, the weary pund 

The whole world was not half so wide .... 

The wind blew hollow frae the hills 

The winter it is past, and the summer comes at last 

The wintry west extends his blast 

The word of the Lord by night 

The World is too much with us ; late and soon . 

The world's a bubble and the life of Man .... 

The world's great age begins anew 

The worthy knight lies here 

The year's at the spring 

The young May moon is beaming, love .... 

Their groves o' sweet myrtle let Foreign Lands 
reckon 

Then, gudewife, count the lawin 

Then hate me when thou wilt; if ever, now . 

Then hey, for a lass wi' a tocher 

Then mounte, then mounte, brave gallants all . 

Theniel Menzies' bonie Mary 

There ance was a may, and she lo'ed na men . 

There be none of Beauty's daughters ..... 

There dwelt a man in faire Westmerland .... 

There is a flower, the Lesser Celandine .... 

There is a garden in her face 

There is delight in singing, though none hear . 

There is no flock, however watched and tended . 

There is no writer that shall not perish .... 

There is not in the wide world a valley so sweet . 

There is sweet music here that softer falls . 

There lived a carl in Kelly Burn Braes. . . . 

There lived a wife at Usher's Well 

There shall be seen upon a day 



44 


i88 


45 


705 


15 


78 


41 


550 


6 


234 


5 


114 


45 


636 


6 


580 


6 


458 


25 


455 


6 


424 


6 


320 


6 


Z2 


42 


1313 


41 


693 


40 


358 


41 


846 


14 


542 


42 


1115 


41 


842 


6 


572 


6 


401 


40 


283 


6 


586 


28 


404 


6 


299 


40 


409 


41 


808 


40 


102 


41 


629 


40 


290 


41 


926 


42 


1329 


i6 


88 


41 


m 


42 


1028 


6 


463 


40 


81 


3 


97 



116 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



There they are, my fifty men and women .... 
There, through the long, long summer hours . 
There was a bonie lass, and a bonie, bonie lass . 

There was a boor from Gelderland 

There was a king in Thule 

There was a lad was born in Kyle 

There was a lass, and she was fair 

There was a lass, they ca'd her Meg ..... 
There was a roaring in the wind all night . 
There was a time when meadow, grove, and stream 

There was a wife wonn'd in Cockpen 

There was five Carlins in the South 

There was once a time, but old Time was then 

young 

There was three kings into the east 

There was twa sisters in a bow'r 

There were three ladies lived in a bower .... 

There were three rauens sat on a tree 

There's a woman like a dew-drop, she's so purer 

than the purest 

There's a youth in this city, it were a great pity . 
There's Auld Rob Morris that wons in yon glen . 

There's Death in the cup, so beware 

There's nane sail ken, there's nane can guess . . . 
There's nane that's blest of human kind .... 

There's news, lassies, news 

There's not a joy the world can give like that it 

takes away 

There's nought but care on ev'ry han' 

These are the five donations great 

These eyes, dear Lord, once brandous of desire . 

They all were looking for a king 

They are all gone into the world of light .... 

They bore him barefac'd on the bier 

They made use of their power 

They shot him dead on the Nine-Stone rig . . . 
They snool me sair, and baud me down .... 
They that have power to hurt,- and will do none . 

They that trust in Jehovah . . 

They told me, Heraclitus, they told me you were 

dead 



42 
28 

6 
47 
19 

6 

6 
6 
41 
41 
6 
6 

6 

6 

40 

40 

40 

18 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 

41 
6 

45 
40 
42 
40 
46 
16 

41 
6 

40 
44 

42 



1137 
393 
550 

459 
113 
98 
494 
317 
674 
609 
460 
389 

349 
41 
54 
58 
74 

369 
368 

473 
548 

554 
277 
580 

803 
51 
635 
337 
1 163 
356 
171 

43 

788 

441 
283 
314 

1 159 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 117 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



fire 



Thickest night, surround my dwelling 
Thine am I, my faithful Fair . . 
Thine be the volumes, Jessy fair . . 
Think me not unkind and rude . 
This day, Time winds th' exhausted chain 
This Doctrine out of toil begot . . 
This is he, who felled by foes . . 
This is no my ain lassie .... 
This is the forest primeval . 
This is the month, and this the happy morn 
This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign 
This is true Liberty when free born men . 
This Life, which seems so fair . 
This lump of earth has left his estate 
This morning timely wrapt with holy 
This rich marble doth inter . 
This Sancho Panza is of body little 
This tale of my sore-troubled life I write 
This winter's weather it waxeth cold 
This wot ye all whom it concerns . 
Thou comest! all is said without a word . 
Thou flatt'ring mark of friendship kind . 
Thou greybeard, old Wisdom! may boast 

treasures 

Thou hast dealt well with thy servant . 
Thou hast left me ever, Jamie .... 
Thou hast thy calling to some palace-floor 
Thou, Liberty, thou art my theme . 
Thou ling'ring star, with less'ning ray . 
Thou, Nature, partial Nature, I arraign . 
Thou of an independent mind .... 
Thou Power Supreme, whose mighty scheme 
Thou still unravish'd bride of quietness . 
Thou that my doleful life didst imitate . 
Thou thoughtest well of the days . . . 

Thou unrelenting past 

Thou, who thy honor as thy God rever'st . 
Thou whom chance may hither lead . 
Thou whom chance may hither lead . 
Thou, Whose Almighty word .... 
Thou youngest virgin-daughter of the skies 



of 



thy 



6 
6 
6 

42 
6 

45 
5 
6 

42 

4 
42 

3 
40 
42 
40 

4 
14 
31 
40 

6 

41 
6 



296 
506 

591 
1293 

394 

283 

575 

1353 

7 

1442 

193 

335 

1073 

304 

28 

541 

3 

190 

252 
962 
200 



6 


489 


44 


303 


6 


504 


41 


951 


6 


432 


6 


386 


6 


338 


6 


563 


28 


88 


41 


901 


14 


15 


16 


211 


42 


1269 


6 


427 


6 


325 


6 


ZZ7 


45 


586 


40 


394 



118 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



Thou's welcome, wean; mishanter fa' me . 
Tho' cruel fate should bid us part .... 
Though fickle Fortune has deceived me . 
Though the day of my destiny's over . 
Though the day of my destiny's over . 
Though thou art not a peer, thou hast no peer 
Tho* women's minds, like winter winds . 
Thoughts, words, and deeds, the Statute blames 

reason 

Three poets, in three distant ages born . 
Three years she grew in sun and shower . 
Three years she grew in sun and shower . 
Through and through th' inspir'd leaves . 
Through birth and rebirth's endless round . 
Through the black, rushing smokebursts . 
Thy bosom is endeared with all hearts . 
Thy braes were bonny, Yarrow stream . 
Thy hands have made me and fashioned me . 
Thy hue, dear pledge, is pure and bright . 

Thy testimonies are wonderful 

Thy tomb is fairly placed upon the strand . 
Thy word is a lamp unto my feet .... 

Tiger, tiger, burning bright 

Time consists of two days ; this bright and 

gloomy 

Timely blossom. Infant fair 

Timon, the misanthrope, am I below 
Tired with all these, for restful death I cry . 
*Tis Friendship's pledge, my young fair Friend 
Tis that, that gives the poet rage .... 

'Tis the day of resurrection 

'Tis the last rose of summer 

'Tis the middle of night by the castle clock . 
'Tis time this heart should be unmoved . . 
To be or not to be? That is the question . 
To draw no envy, Shakespeare, on thy name . 

To fair Fidele's grassy tomb 

To heal his heart of long-time pain .... 
To him who in the love of Nature holds . 
To John I owed great obligation .... 
To make a happy fireside clime 



with 



that 



6 

6 

6 

41 

28 

14 
6 

6 
40 

41 

28 

6 

45 
42 

40 
41 
44 
41 

44 
12 

44 
41 

16 
40 
12 
40 
6 
39 
45 
41 
41 
41 
34 
40 

41 
42 
42 
40 
28 



59 
98 

Z7 
810 
401 

16 
140 

217 
406 
686 
151 

638 
1 172 

512 
304 

757 
308 

35 
306 

597 

18 
451 
391 
281 

579 
325 
555 
839 
726 
836 

135 
308 

487 

1479 
1262 

408 

87 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 119 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


40 


284 


12 


69 


41 


605 


41 


929 


41 


943 


27 


313 


6 


550 


41 


601 


41 


770 


6 


312 


6 


22>Z 


41 


546 


46 


167 


12 


399 


41 


671 


6 


484 


40 


77 


19 


335 


14 


ZZ3 


6 


441 


40 


293 


42 


1007 


39 


309 


40 


400 


6 


230 


6 


158 


6 


561 


6 


571 


41 


605 


40 


473 


6 


S22 


41 


579 


42 


1303 


6 


242 


41 


923 


41 


691 


34 


153 


42 


1323 



To me, fair Friend, you never can be old . . . . 

To Megara some of our madcaps ran 

To Mercy, Pity, Peace, and Love 

To my ninth decade I have totter'd on .... . 

To my true king I offered, free from stain . 

To paint fair Nature, by divine command . . . . 

To Riddell, much lamented man 

To see a world in a grain of sand 

To the Lords of Convention 'twas Claver'se who 

spoke 

To the weaver's gin ye go, fair maids 

To you, sir, this summons I've sent 

Toll for the Brave 

To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day 

Too many leaders are not well ; the way .... 
Toussaint, the most unhappy man of men .... 
True hearted was he, the sad swain o' the Yarrow . 
True Thomas lay o'er yond grassy bank .... 
Truly, I never have seen the market and street so 

deserted 

Truly woman is of glass 

Turn again, thou fair Eliza 

Turn all thy thoughts to eyes 

Turn, Fortune, turn thy wheel, and lower the proud 
Turn on the prudent Ant thy heedless eyes . 
'Twas at the royal feast for Persia won .... 
'Twas even, — the dewy fields were green .... 

'Twas in that place o' Scotland's isle 

'Twas in the seventeen hunder year 

'Twas na her bonie blue e'e was my ruin .... 
'Twas on a Holy Thursday, their innocent faces 

clean 

'Twas on a lofty vase's side 

'Twas on a Monday morning 

'Twas on a Monday morning 

'Twas one of the charmed days 

'Twas when the stacks get on their winter hap . 
Twenty years hence my eyes may grow .... 
Two Voices are there, one is of the Sea .... 

Umbriel, a dusky, melancholy sprite 

Under a spreading chestnut-tree 



120 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Under the greenwood tree 

Under the wide and starry sky 

Under yonder beech-tree single on the green-sward 

Underneath this sable hearse 

Unhappy they, to whom God ha'n't reveal'd . . . 
Unlike are we, unlike, O princely Heart . . . . 

Unto thee do I lift up mine eyes 

Unto thee, O Jehovah, do I lift up my soul . . . 

Unto thee, O Jehovah, will I call 

Up and waur them a', Jamie 

Up from the meadows rich with corn 

Up in the morning's no for me 

Up the airy mountain 

Up the streets of Aberdeen 

Up wi' the carls o' Dysart 

Upon a simmer Sunday morn 

Upon my lap, my Sovereign sits 

Upon that night, when fairies light 

Vane, young in years but in sage counsel old . . 

Vanity, saith the preacher, vanity 

Verse, a breeze 'mid blossoms straying .... 

Victorious men of earth, no more 

Vigil strange I kept on the field one night . . . 

Virupakkhas, I love them all 

Wae is my heart, and the tear's in my e'e . . . 
Wae worth thy power, thou cursed leaf .... 
Wailing, wailing, wailing, the wind over land and 

sea 

Wake ! For the Sun behind yon Eastern bright . 

Waken, lords and ladies gay 

Warriors and chiefs! should the shaft or the sword 

We are na fou, we're nae that fou 

We are the music-makers 

We cam na here to view your warks 

We give thanks unto thee, O God 

We grant they're thine, those beauties all . . . . 

We have heard with our ears, O God 

We must resign! heaven his great soul does claim . 
We praise thee, O God, we acknowledge thee to be 

the Lord 

We talk'd with open heart, and tongue .... 



Vol. 


Page 


40 


268 


42 


1261 


42 


1 186 


40 


343 


27 


71 


41 


950 


44 


313 


44 


173 


44 


177 


6 


393 


42 


1439 


6 


316 


42 


1 162 


42 


1424 


6 


278 


6 


102 


40 


261 


6 


117 


4 


85 


42 


1117 


41 


719 


40 


360 


42 


1485 


45 


724 


6 


545 


6 


232 


42 


1046 


41 


970 


41 


768 


41 


832 


6 


376 


42 


1246 


6 


289 


44 


240 


6 


533 


44 


200 


34 


149 


45 


558 


41 


617 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 121 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



We trod the steps appointed for us 

We twa hae paidl't i' the burn 

We walked along, while bright and red .... 
We watched her breathing thro' the night . 
We'll hide the Cooper behint the door .... 
We're all deluded, vainly searching ways . • . . 

Weak-winged is song 

Wee, modest, crimson-tipped flow'r 

Wee, sleekit, cowrin, tim'rous beastie . . . . . 
Wee Willie Gray, and his leather wallet . . . . 

Weep with me, all you that read 

Welcome, wild North-easter 

Well I remember how you smiled 

Well ! If the Bard was weather-wise, who made . 

Were I as base as is the lowly plain 

Were I so tall to reach the pole ...... 

Wha, in a brulyie, will 

Wha is that at my bower-door ? 

Wha will buy my troggin, fine election ware . 
Whan bells war rung, an mass was sung .... 
Whan that Aprille with his shoures soote .... 

Whare are you gaun, my bonie lass 

Whare live ye, my bonie lass 

What ails ye now, ye lousie bitch 

What bird so sings, yet so does wail? . . . . • 
What can a young lassie, what shall a young lassie 

What can I give thee back, O liberal 

What constitutes a state 

What danger is the Pilgrim in 

What dost thou in that mansion fair? 

What flocks of critics hover here to-day .... 
What guile is this, that those her golden tresses . . 

What hath wrought Sigurd 

What I have left, I left not from generosity . 
What is our life? The play of passion . . . . 
What man his conduct guardeth, and hath wisdom . 
What needs my Shakespeare, for his honored bones 
What needs this din about the town o' Lon'on . 
What one would think doth seek to slay outright . 
What time my age was twenty-nine, Subhadda . 
What was he doing, the great god Pan • • • • 



i6 
28 
41 
41 
6 

3 

42 

6 

6 

6 

40 

42 

41 

41 

40 

40 

6 

6 

6 

40 

40 

6 

6 

6 

40 

6 

41 

41 

15 

6 

18 

40 

49 
16 
40 
45 
4 
6 

15 
45 
41 



74 
89 
615 
935 
564 
308 

1458 
201 

125 

550 

307 
1 103 

925 
745 
322 
408 
523 
51 
587 

79 
II 

382 

460 

239 
213 
430 
953 
592 
313 
496 

19 
254 
417 
316 
210 

755 
26 

396 
277 
657 
948 



122 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



What will I do gin my Hoggie die 

Whatever is, is right. Though purblind man . . 
When a deed is done for Freedom, through the 

broad earth's aching breast 

When all the world is young, lad 

When at the first I took my pen in hand .... 

When biting Boreas, fell and dour 

When Britain first at Heaven'^s command . . . . 
When, by a generous Public's kind acclaim . . . 

When chapman billies leave the street 

When chill November's surly blast 

When Christians unto carnal men give ear . . 

When daisies pied and violets blue 

When dear Clarinda, matchless fair 

When Death's dark stream I ferry o'er .... 
When do I see thee most, beloved one .... 
When Faith and Love, which parted from thee 

never 

When first I came to Stewart Kyle 

When first my brave Johnie lad came to the town . 

When first the fiery-mantled Sun 

When fortune is liberal to thee 

When God at first made man 

When God willeth an event 

When Guilford good our pilot stood 

When he came to grene wode 

When he who adores thee has left but the name . 

When I am dead, my dearest 

When I consider how my light is spent .... 

When I consider life, 'tis all a cheat 

When I have borne in memory what has tamed . 
When I have fears that I may cease to be . 
When I have seen by Time's fell hand defaced . . 

When I survey the bright 

When icicles hang by the wall 

When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes . . 

When in the chronicle of wasted time 

When Israel went forth out of Egypt 

When Januar' wind was blawing cauld .... 
When Jehovah brought back those that returned to 

Zion 



6 
I 

42 

42 

15 
6 

40 
6 
6 
6 

15 

40 
6 
6 

42 

4 
6 

6 

41 
16 
40 
16 
6 
28 

41 

42 

4 
34 
41 
41 
40 
40 
40 
40 
40 

44 
6 

44 



314 

57 

1447 
1 103 

5 
260 

453 
273 

411 

64 

24 

270 

309 
296 

1225 

84 
61 

439 

790 
212 

355 
138 

54 

409 

838 

1228 

86 
137 
693 
921 
280 
258 
267 
276 
285 
294 
564 

314 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 123 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



When Lascelles thought fit from this world to de- 
part 

When Letty had scarce passed her third glad year . 

When lilacs last in the dooryard bloom'd .... 

When Love with unconfined wings 

When lovely woman stoops to folly 

When lyart leaves bestrow the yird 

When maidens such as Hester die 

When men shall find thy flow'r, thy glory, pass . 

When Morine, deceas'd, to the devil went down . 

When Music, heavenly maid, was young .... 

When Nature her great master-piece design'd . . 

When o'er the rill the evening star 

When on my sickly couch I lay 

When our two souls stand up erect and strong . 

When priests are more in word than matter . 

When Princes and Prelates 

When rosy May comes in wi* flowers 

When Ruth was left half desolate 

When Saints do sleepy grow, let them come hither . 

When the blest seed of Terah's faithful Son . 

When the British warrior queen 

When the drums do beat, and the cannons rattle . 

When the hounds of spring are on winter's traces . 

When the hours of Day are numbered 

When the lamp is shatter'd 

When the pine tosses its cones 

When the sheep are in the fauld, and the kye at 
hame 

When the voices of children are heard on the green 

When to her lute Corinna sings . 

When to the sessions of sweet silent thought . 

When to the strenuous, meditative Brahman . 

When we met first and loved, I did not build . 

When we two parted 

When wild war's deadly blast was blawn .... 

Whenas in silks my Julia goes 

Where are the joys I have met in the morning . 

Where are the Kings and the peoples of the earth . 

Where art thou, my beloved Son 

Where, braving angry winter's storms 



6 


520 


41 


947 


42 


1497 


40 


365 


41 


517 


6 


129 


41 


753 


40 


224 


6 


497 


41 


488 


6 


329 


6 


471 


2^ 


24 


41 


958 


46 


252 


6 


479 


6 


360 


41 


622 


15 


141 


4 


15 


41 


551 


6 


364 


42 


1247 


42 


1319 


41 


874 


42 


1301 


41 


570 


41 


604 


40 


291 


40 


276 


45 


640 


41 


964 


41 


807 


6 


486 


40 


346 


6 


505 


16 


Z27 


41 


660 


6 


304 



124 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


6 


437 


42 


1 164 


40 


305 


6 


381 


8 


364 


42 


1 168 


41 


759 


46 


435 


40 


272 


40 


385 


28 


414 


15 


389 


45 


753 


44 


300 


42 


1305 


40 


202 


6 


no 


6 


84 


45 


711 


6 


474 


6 


497 


6 


88 


6 


443 


6 


70 


46 


406 


42 


1245 


42 


1271 


42 


1490 


14 


250 


45 


"^22 


40 


269 


41 


6^2 


28 


87 


31 


175 


15 


305 


6 


286 


40 


369 


6 


230 


40 


310 


6 


5S6 



Where Cart rins rowin to the sea 

Where did you come from, baby dear 

Where dost thou careless lie 

Where hae ye been sae braw, lad 

Where is the Home for me 

Where lies the land to which the ship would go . 

Where shall the lover rest 

Where the bee sucks, there suck I 

Where the bee sucks, there suck I 

Where the remote Bermudas ride 

Where they once dug for money 

Whereas my birth and spirit rather took . . . . 

Whereas the wise who cultivate 

Wherewith shall a young man cleanse his way . 
Whether is better, the gift or the donor . . . . 
Which that the sun with his beams hot . . . . 

While at the stook the shearers cow'r 

While briers an' woodbines budding green . 
While eagerly man culls life's flowers . . . . 
While Europe's eye is fixed on mighty things . 

While larks, with little wing 

While new-ca'd kye rowt at the stake . . . . , 
While virgin Spring by Eden's flood . . . . 
While winds frae aff Ben-Lomond blaw . . . . 

While you here do snoring lie 

Whiles in the early winter eve 

Whither, midst falling dew . 

Who are you, dusky woman, so ancient hardly hu 

man 

Who doth my weal diminish thus and stain . 

Who is it worships at my feet 

Who is Silvia? What is she? 

Who is the happy Warrior? Who is he . . . 

Who made the heart, 'tis He alone 

Who shall, Mattio, yield our pain relief . . . 

Who would true valour see 

Whoe'er he be that sojourns here 

Whoe'er she be 

Whoe'er thou art, O reader, know 

Whoever comes to shroud me, do not harm . 
Whom will you send to London town .... 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 125 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



Whose is that noble, dauntless brow 

Whoso would know the power of God's dominion . 
Why am I loth to leave this earthly scene .... 
Why art thou silent? Is thy love a plant . . . 
Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty 

man 

Why, Damon, with the forward day 

Why do the nations rage ........ 

Why dois your brand sae drap wi* bluid .... 

Why, let the strucken deer go weep 

Why look the distant mountains 

Why so pale and wan, fond lover 

Who standest thou afar off, O Jehovah .... 

Why weep ye by the tide, ladie 

Why, why tell the lover 

Why, ye tenants of the lake 

Will ye go to the Hielands, Leezie Lindsay . 

Will ye go to the Indies, my Mary 

Willie Wastle dwalt on Tweed 

Wilt thou be my Dearie? 

Wilt Thou forgive that sin where I begun . 
Wilt Thou forgive that sin where I begun . 

Winds blow and waters roll 

Wishfully I look and languish 

Wi' braw new branks in mickle pride 

With Esop's lion, Burns says, sore I feel .... 
With food and drinks and cunning magic arts . 

With his cross-bow, and his quiver 

With how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the skies 

With little here to do or see 

With numerous tribes from Asia's regions brought 

With Pegasus upon a day 

With sacrifice before the rising morn 

With secret throes I marked that earth .... 
With the same heart, I said, I'll answer thee . . 

Within the glen sae bushy, O 

Word's gane to the kitchen 

Words of strife heard I 

Work of his hand 

Would that the structure brave, the manifold music 

I build 



6 

31 
6 

41 

44 
41 

44 
40 

46 

41 
40 

44 

41 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

40 

15 

5 

6 

6 

6 

2 

26 
40 

41 

12 

6 

41 
6 

41 

6 

40 

49 

5 

42 



272 

263 

36 

689 

210 
493 
147 
56 
146 

943 
363 
155 

758 

573 
300 
580 
210 
461 
511 
311 
357 
102 

428 
238 
290 
252 
416 
217 

655 
12 

345 
678 
188 

963 
211 

118 

444 
191 

1 144 



126 POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 



Page 



Would'st thou hear what man can say . 

Wow, but your letter made me vauntie 

Ye banks and braes and streams around 

Ye banks and braes o' bonie Doon . . 

Ye blushing virgins happy are . 

Ye distant spires, ye antique towers . 

Ye flaming Powers, and winged Warriors bright 

Ye flowery banks o' bonie Doon . 

Ye gallants bright, I rede you right . 

Ye Highlands, and ye Lawlands . . 

Ye hypocrites ! are these your pranks . 

Ye Irish lords, ye knights an' squires . 

Ye Jacobites by name, give an ear, give an ear 

Ye learned sisters, which have oftentimes 

Ye maggots, feed on Nicol's brain .... 

Ye Mariners of England 

Ye men of wit and wealth, why all this sneering 
Ye sons of old Killie, assembled by Willie . 
Ye true "Loyal Natives*' attend my song . 
Ye twain, in trouble and distress .... 
Ye wavering shapes, again ye do enfold me . 
Yes, call me by my pet-name ! Let me hear . 

Yes; in the sea of life enisled 

Ves, let the rich deride, the proud disdain . 
Yes, there is holy pleasure in thine eye . 

Yestreen I had a pint o' wine 

Yestreen I met you on the moor .... 
Yet if His Majesty, our sovereign lord . . 
Yet, love, mere love, is beautiful indeed . 
Yet once more, O ye Laurels, and once more 
Yet pleased with idle whimsies of his brain . 
Yon wandering rill that marks the hill . 
Yon wild mossy mountains sae lofty and wide 
You ask me why, tho' ill at ease .... 

You brave heroic minds 

You meaner beauties of the night .... 
You promise heavens free from strife . 
You render me lovelorn and remain at ease . 
You spotted snakes with double tongue . . 
You'll love me yet! — and I can tarry . . . 
You're welcome to Despots, Dumourier . . 



40 

6 

6 

6 

40 

40 

4 
6 
6 

40 
6 
6 
6 

40 
6 

41 

6 

6 

6 

19 

19 

41 

42 

6 

41 

6 

6 

40 

41 

4 

34 

6 

6 

42 

40 

40 

42 

16 

40 

42 

6 



304 
387 

472 
424 

257 

459 
42 

423 
351 
109 

489 
165 
446 

238 
278 
797 
489 
254 
488 

9 

7 
963 
1 174 
116 
695 
399 

20 
201 
953 

74 
146 

439 
263 

1032 
230 
294 

1 159 
118 

270 
491 



POEMS, SONGS, CHORUSES, HYMNS AND PSALMS 127 



Index to the First Lines 



Vol. 


Page 


6 


438 


6 


515 


6 


362 


6 


114 


6 


283 


6 


310 


42 


1226 


6 


347 



You're welcome, Willie Stewart .... 
Young Jamie, pride of a' the plain . . . 
Young Jockie was the blythest lad . 
Young Peggy blooms our boniest lass . 
Your billet, sir, I grant receipt .... 
Your friendship much can make me blest . 
Your hands lie open in the long, fresh grass 
Your News and Review, sir . . , . . 



VOL. L — Hc (5) 



EXPLANATORY NOTE ON GENERAL INDEX 

Titles of hooks, essays, dramas, poems, etc., are 
indexed under the significant subject word where there 
is one (as TRUTH, EsSAY ON, Bacon's. IMMORTAL- 
iTY, Ode on Intimations of). 

Where there is no principal subject word, the title 
is indexed in its proper order, omitting initial articles, 
prepositions^ or interjections (Harp That Once 
Through Tara's Halls, The). 

Titles of works included in The Harvard Classics 
are entered in small capitals (-^neid, The). Works 
discussed in the Classics, but not included therein, are 
entered in italics (Percy^s Reliques), and will be found 
as a rule only as subtitles under the author's name. 
Where the author is unknown or uncertain, or where 
there is a multiple authorship, the work is entered 
tmder its own title. 

Titles of many poems are merely the first lines re- 
peated. The exact titles of such poems will therefore 
he found in the Index to the First Lines of Poems, 
Songs, Choruses, Hymns and Psalms. "Any other 
entry likely to be of use has been put into the 
General Index. 



128 



GENERAL INDEX 



Aaron, references to, in Psalms, xllv, 
243 (20), 2J2 (6), 281 {.2(i), 283 
(16); beard of, 319 (2); and the 
golden calf, 444 (40-1); breast- 
plate of, iv, 153, 388; Calvin on, 
xxxix, 45 ; Browning on, xlii, 
1 143; Mohammed on, xlv, 922 
Abano, Pietro d', xix, 205, note 35 
Abas, in the -^neid, xiii, 79, 332, 

341 
Abascantius, L. Satrius, ix, 379 
Abbagliato, Dante on, xx, 124, and 

note 7 
Abbati, Bocca degli, xx, 135, note 8 
Abaddon, Hebrew for destruction, 
xliv, 116, note 13; Milton on, 
iv, 415 
Abbondio, Don, in The Betrothed, 
meets the bravoes, xxi, 9-15; char- 
acter and times of, 16-20; tells 
Perpetua his mishap, 21-4; plans 
to put Renzo off, 25-6; with 
Renzo, 27-30; owns truth to 
Renzo, 31-3; his fever, 34; on 
night of Renzo's intended mar- 
riage, 119-24, 132; ordered to go 
to Lucia, 385-9; with the Un- 
named on the way, 390-5; returns 
with Lucia, 396-404; complained 
of, by Agnese, 415; with the 
Cardinal, 425-7; reprimanded by 
Cardinal, 433-44; during German 
invasion, 493-502, 508-13; at castle 
of Unnamed, 515-17; returns 
home, 517-20; with Renzo on lat- 
ter's return, 569-71; anxieties 
abGJt marrying Renzo, 645, 651-4; 
consents to perform ceremony, 
655-8; advises Marquis how to 
aici lovers, 658-61 
Abbott, T. K., translator of Kant, 

xxxii, 315 
Abbott, Capt., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

409, 411 
Abdallah ibn Umm Maktum, xlv, 

895 note 
Abd-el-Melik, xvi, 310, 339 
Abd-es-Samad, the shiek, xvi, 313-37 
Abdication, Rousseau on right of, 

xxxiv, 225 
Abdiel, in Paradise Lost, rebukes 
Satan, iv, 204; leaves the rebel 



129 



angels, 205-6; arrival among the 
faithful, 207-8; combat with Sa- 
tan, 209-12; in the battle, 216; 
Bagehot on Milton's, xxviii, 204-5 
A Becket (see Becket) 
Abel and Cain, Milton on, iv, 333-4; 
Mohammed on, xlv, loii; taken 
from Limbo by Christ, xx, 18; 
and the tree of Eve, xxxv, 196 
Abelard, Carlyle on, xxv, 379 
Aberfeldy, The Birks of, vi, 292-3 
Aberrant species, xi, 468 
Abiathar, Winthrop on, xliii, 100 
Abide with Me, xlv, 580-1 
Abihu, Browning on, xlii, 1143 
Ability, Penn on, worldly, i, 392-5; 
with humility, i, 411, (247); M. 
Aurelius on low natural, ii, 225 
(5), 246 (5), 252 (52), 255 (67), 
258 (8); generally accompanied 
by frankness, iii, 18; certain to 
make itself felt, v, 297 
Abime, the Saracen, xlix, 157, 158 
Abimelech, and David, xliv, 184 
Abindarraez, story of, xiv, 47 
Abishag, reference to, xli, 499 
Abolitionism, Lowell on, xxviii, 459 
Abortion, Hippocrates on, xxxviii, 3 
Abou Ben Adhem, xli, 893-4 
Abra, Pompeia's maid, xii, 282 
Abradatas, xxvii, 23 
Abraham, Milton on, iv, 348-9; and 
Ephron, x, 32; Bunyan on, xv, 
107, 240-1; and Sarah, xxxvi, 
285; Paul on, 370; the covenant 
with, xliv, 280 (9) ; Stephen on, 
442 (2-8) ; Mohammed on, xlv, 
915, 921-2, 967, 993; and Ib!is, 
965, note 5; Pascal on, xlviii, 167 
(502), 202, 205, 207, 220 (644), 
289 (822); 303; taken from Limbo, 

XX, 18 

Abraxa, early name of Utopia, 

xxxvi, 182 
Abridgments, Swift on, xxvii, 119 
Abriorix, Gaulish chief, xii, 295 
Abrotonon, mother of Themistocles, 

xii, 5 
Absalom, and David, xx, 120; Psalm 

when David fled from, xliv, 148- 

9; Bunyan on, xv, 313; Davia*3 

grief for, 423 



130 



GENERAL INDEX 



Abscesses, antiseptic treatment of, 

xxxviii, 277-80 
Absence, by Landor, xli, 923 
Absence, Present in, xl, 321 
Absence, Lovelace on, xl, 366; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 30-1 
Absentees, taxation of, x, 560 
Absolutes, Plato on knowledge of, 
ii, 64-6; participation in, 94-6; 
further remarks on, 97-8; Schil- 
ler on search for, xxxii, 252; 
Mazzini on, xxxii, 401 
Absolution, Luther on unjust, xxxvi, 
289; Pascal on, xlviii, 309 (870), 
316 (904-5)» 322 (923) 
Abstemiousness, Pliny on, ix, 312-13 
Abstinence, Comus on folly of, iv, 
65-6; Hindu doctrine of, xlv, 

876-7 

Abstract ideas, Plato on, 11, 64-6; 
Epictetus on, 157 (109); Schiller 
on, xxxii, 252; Rousseau on, 
xxxiv, 257; Berkeley on, xxxvii, 
225-6; Hume on, 436, 438 note 

Abstract names, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

341 
Abstract philosophy, Hume on, 

xxxvii, 306-15, 370 
Abstract reasoning, Hume on, 

xxxvii, 437-8, 443 
Abstract sciences, Pascal on, xlviii, 

58 (144) 
Absurdities, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

346-7 
Abt Vogler, xlii, 1 1 44-8 
Abu Bekr, xlv, 977, note 24 
Abu Ghal, xlv, 889, note 3 
Abu-1-Abbas El-Khidr, xvi, 338 
Abu Laheb, xlv, 1003, note 20 
Abu Sufian, xlv, 955, note 2 
Abuses, Sidney on, xxvii, 38; Lu- 
ther on, xxxvi, 324-5; Dryden on, 
xxxix, 183, note 36; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 318 (916) 
Abyssinia, salt as money in, x, 30 
Academic philosophy, Hume on, 

xxxvii, 337-8, 431-45 
Academics, St. Augustine on the, 

vii, T]\ on nature, xxxix, 114 
Academy, Milton's design of an, iii, 

251-9 
Academy of Plato, ii, i ; first 

formed by Cimon, xxviii, 41; 

Milton on, iv, 405; Newman on, 

xxviii, 58-9 
Acadie, A Tale of (see Evangeline) 
Acamacari, town of, xxxiii, 373 
Acception of persons, xxxiv, 426 
Acciu works of, lost, xxvii, 361 
Acclimatisation, Darwin on, xi, 

A ^52-5 
Accolti, Benedetto, xxxi, 'j(>, note 

285, note 4 
Accomplishments, Locke on, xxxvii, 

182 
Accorso, Francesco, xx, 66 and 

note 4 



Accounting, as part of female edu- 
cation, i, 97-8; importance of 
punctual, 102-3; Locke on knowl- 
edge and practise of, xxxvii, 190-1 

Accuracy, essential to beauty, v, 
219; Hume on, xxxvii, 309-10; 
Goethe on, xxxix, 269 

Accusations, kill innocent names, 
xviii, 333; Bentham on public, 
xxvii, 253-4; in law, Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 415; of children, xxxvii, 
96; Calvin on, xxxix, 30 

Accusers, false, in ancient Rome, 
ix, 310, note 8 

Acedophagi, xxxv, 367 

Acelin, Count, xlix, 103, 191^ 

Acestes, King of Sicily, xiii, 94; 
welcomes ^neas, 183; at games, 
184; the arrow of, 199-200 

Acetate of lead, under voltaic cur- 
rent, XXX, 134 note 

Acetate of soda, xxx, 39 and note 

Acevedo, Pietro de, on bravoes, xxi, 

Achaemenides, xiii, 15 1-3 

Achaia, Pliny on, ix, 349 

Achaicus, xlv, 526 (17) 

Achan, Dante on, xx, 230; Vane on, 
xliii, 137 

Achates, faithful, xiii, 79; refer- 
ences to, 81, 86, 95, 98, 148, 212, 
287 

Achelons River, Herodotus on, 
xxxiii, 9 

Acheron, Plato on the, ii, 109, no; 
sooty flag of, iv, 62 ; Milton on 
the, 125; blood-bedabbled peak of, 
viii, 433; Virgil on, xiii, 215, 221; 
Dante on the, xx, 15, 62; Homer 
on the, xxii, 150; Burke on ex- 
halation of, xxiv, 75 (see xiii, 
219-20) 

Acherusian Lake, ii, 109, no 

Achievement, Browning on, xlii, 
1 140 

Achillas, and Caesar, xii, 316 

Achilles, Socrates on, ii, 15; and 
Patroclus, iii, 332; xxxii, 79; 
xlvi, 25; Milton on wrath of, iv, 
264; heel of, V, 96; Dryden on, 
xiii, 9, 15, 28; xxxix, 166; father 
of Fyrrhus, and Priam, xiii, 
121-2; imitated by Alexander, 
xxxvi, 52; brought up by Chiron, 
60; flight from Chiron, xx, 182; 
in Dante's Hell, 23; javelin of, 
129; his quarrel with Ulysses, 
xxii, 106; Homer on death and 
funeral of, xxii, 332-3; in Hades, 
164-5, 331; Burke on, xxiv, 133; 
Tom Brown on, xxvii, 328; Shel- 
ley on Homer's, 352-3; and the 
twenty-five cities, xxxv, 246; and 
the captive, xxxix, 251 

Achillini, and King Louis, xxi, 487 

Achoriens, More on the, xxxvii 
168-9 



GENERAL INDEX 



131 



AciHus, friend of Pliny, ix, 251; 

soldier of Caesar, xii, 287 
Acmon, in the ^neid, xiii, 331 
Acoetes, servant of Pallas, xiii, 361, 

Aconcagua, volcano of, xxix, 269, 

309-10; height of, 261, note 11 
Aconteus, in the ^neid, xiii, 383 
! Acoustics, in New Atlantis, iii, 

. 187 

Acquiescence, Burns on, vi, 73; 
Emerson's doctrine of, v, 64-5, 
1 51-2; Epictetus on, ii, 126 (26, 
29), 130 (37)» ^36 (58), 138 (61), 
143 (71), 149 (84), 164 (131), 
165 (i33» I34)» 167 (138, 139), 
172 (152), 174 (159, 160), 179 
(184, 186); Hume on doctrine of, 
xxxvii, 389-90; Jesus on, xli, 503; 
Job on, xliv, 75 (10); Kempis 
on. vii, 287-8, 289-90, 313-4, 3^^' 
330-3; M. Aurelius on, ii, 205 
(17), 212 (16), 217 (23), 220 
(34), 226 (8), 228 (10), 231 (27), 
242 (44), 251 (41), 252 (51, 54), 
253 (58), 261 (32), 265 (50), 
273 (28), 283 (14), 285 (28), 290 
(6), 301 (14); Pascal's doctrine, 
xlviii, 345-6, 358, 377; Pascal on 
Epictetus's doctrine, 393-4; Pope 
on, xl, 422, 425; Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 102; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
288; Tennyson on, xiii, 1059; 
Thackeray on, xiii, iioo-i 
Acrasia, the enchantress, xxxix, 68 
Acron, death of, xiii, 351-2 
Acropolis, propylaea of the, xii, 

52 
Acta Sanctorum, Carlyle on, v, 

475 

Actaeon, son of Autonoe, viii, 406; 
and Artemis, 361-2; reference to, 
xlvii, 683 note 

Actilius, Caxton on, 16 

Actinic light, xxx, 272 

Actinism, xxviii, 431 

Action (see also Acts, Activity) ; 
Demosthenes on, iii, 33; the value 
of, to the scholar, v, 12-15; Kant 
on principles of, xxxii, 345-70; 
two ways of,^ xxxix, 123; Long- 
fellow on, xiii, 13 16, 131 7; Hindu 
doctrine of, xlv, 809-10, 813-15, 
819-20, 823-4, 826, 876-8; Web- 
ster on want of, xlvii, 723; Pascal 
on necessity of, xlviii, 51 (131); 
sources of, 117 (334); and love, 
423» 425 

Action and reaction (see Polarity) 

Actium,^ battle of, xii, 385-9; Bacon 
on, iii, 83; Dryden on Antony at, 
xviii, 30; Virgil on, xiii, 294-5 

Actius, razor of, iii, 329, note 9 

Activity, Cicero on, ix, 52; Epic- 
tetus on, and meditation, ii, 125; 
M. Aurelius on, 271 (16); Hindu 
Krishna on, xlv, 813; man prone 



to shirk, xix, 19; in perceptions, 
xxxvii, 228-9 

Actor, the lance of, xiii, 398 

Actors, attitude of, toward the 
drama, xix, 10, 12-13; as teach- 
ers, 27; high rewards of, reason 
for, X, 113; Lamb on, xxvii, 314- 
22; legal, xxxiv, 430-1; Montaigne 
on,^ xxxii, 72; Shakespeare on, 
xlvi, 1 30- 1, 138-9; Voltaire on, 
xxxiv, 156 

Acts, better than knowledge, xv, 
87; xxxii, 60-1; xliv, 9 (24), 375 
(47-9); better than words, ii, 177 
(175),. 283 (16), 292 (15); 
Browning on, and intentions, 
xiii, 1 1 13; Confucius on, and 
words, xliv, 8 (13), 14 (24), 16 
(9)* 50 (29); consequences of, 
xlviii, 168 (505); effect of, on 
faculties and habits, ii, 144 (75) ; 
explain themselves, v, 71; carry 
own rewards, 94, 300; hidden, 
most noble, xlviii, 61 (159); 
Hindu doctrine of, xlv, 877-8; 
Hume on, and motives, xxxvii, 
373-81, 383 note, 386-7; Kant on 
moral worth of, xxxii, 327-34^ 
370-1; Kempis on judgment of, 
vii, 308; kind of words, v, 170; 
not motives, to be judged, xxv, 
37; our angels, v, 63; our epochs, 
xviii, 416; our only possessions, 
xlv, 692; religiousness of, 874; 
unsocial, ii, 272 (23) 

Acts of the Apostles^ authorship 
of, xliv, 356, 429-95; editorial re- 
marks on, 428 

Acts of settlement, succession, etc. 
(see Settlement, Succession) 

Acuto, Giovanni, xxxvi, 44 

Ad, xlv, 902, 916 

Adam, awakening of, iv, 183-4; 
253-7; Bacon on fall of, xxxix, 
135; Bagehot on Milton's, xxviii, 
210; Browne on, iii, 286-7; 304, 
331; Burns on, vi, 150; Chaucer 
on, xl, 46; confesses his sin and 
is judged, iv, 297-9; creation ex- 
plained to, 251; inquiries of, on 
creation, 231-3, 243; curse of, 
xxxvi, 349; Dante on, xx, 398- 
400; earth, kingdoms of, seen 
by, in vision, iv, 332-3; Eden, 
departure of, from, 360-2; Eden, 
Life in, described by, 253-7; 
Eden, loss of, dreaded by, 330-1; 
Eden, sentenced to leave, 325; 
Eve, accused by, 290-3 ; Eve, dis- 
course with, on laboring apart, 
268-73; Eve, love of, for, 259- 
62; Eve, meeting of, with, 258-9; 
Eve, supper of, with, 165-6; 
Eve, tree of, and, xxxv, 196; 
Eve, wrath of, at, iv, 316-18; 
fall of, through own fault, 
294-S; future, vision of, by, 333- 



132 



GENERAL INDEX 



59; Hamlet, mentions of, in, 
xlvi, i8o; hides from God, iv, 
297; Hobbes on language of, 
xxxiv, 335-6; labors of, iv, 189; 
Lamb on pictures of, xxvii, 327 
note; lament of, iv, 312-16; 
Luther on, xxxvi, 380; Michael, 
meeting of, with, iv, 328-9; 
morning hymn, 187-9; Omens, 
evil, seen by, 327; Paradise 
Lost, Description 01, in, 164-5; 
supper with Eve, 165-6; Pascal 
on state of, xlviii, 187 (560) ; 
prayers relieve, iv, 326; Raphael 
discourses with, 195-7; Raphael 
parts with, 262-3; Raphael 
welcomed by, 191-3; rest sug- 
gested by, 173; retires to rest 
with Eve, 175-6; saved by Christ, 
XX, 18; his place in Paradise, 423; 
Savior promised to, xlviii, 219- 
220; stars, discourse of, on, 174; 
stars, inquiries of, on, iv, 247; 
submission advised by, 320-2; 
tree of knowledge, described to 
Eve by, 167-8; wisdom of, xx, 341, 
note 6; Eve tempts, iv, 285-90; 
waking, accuses Eve, 290-3 

Adam and Eve, Woolman on, i, 223 

Adam and Eve*s Pools, iii, 179 

Adam the First, and his daughters, 
XV, 74 

Adamo of Brescia, xx, 126, note 2; 
Simon of Troy, and, 128 

Adams, John, Americanism of, v, 
71; American independence, and, 
xliii, 160 note, 164; treaty with 
England and, 185-6 

Adams, John Quincy, treaty of 18 14 
and, xliii, 273; treaty with Spain 
and, xliii, 286 

Adams, Matthew, i, 15 

Adams, Samuel, signer of Declara- 
tion, xliii, 164; in Articles of 
Confederation, 177 

Adams, Sarah Flower, hymn by, xlv, 

Adams, William, xliii, 273 
Adamus, in Utopia, xxxvi, 192 
Adaptability, Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii, 241 (39) ; Montaigne on, 
xxxii, 59-60; to times, Machia- 
velli on, xxxvi, 84-6 
Adaptation, in nature, xi, 90-1 ; ex- 
amples of, 76-7, 98, 208, 235; 
;:xix, 488; never perfect, 96; to 
atmospheric conditions, xxxviii, 
355-6; to clim.ate. xi, 152-3 
Adder, Harrison on the, xxxv, 362- 

364 
Addison, Joseph, birth and educa- 
tion, 165-7; Campaign, 169-70, 
193-5; Cato of, 169, 176-9, 189- 
90; Cato, quotation from, i, 86; 
character and habits of, xxvii, 
187-92; Commissioner of Appeals, 
170; critical abilities of, 208-10; 



death of, 186-7; defense of Chris- 
tianity, 183-4; Dennis on Cato 
of, 197-208; descriptions of life, 
210-11; the Drummer, 180; Dry- 
den on translations of, xiii, 
432; early writings of, xxvii, 
167-8; Esther Johnson and, 132-3; 
Freeholder, 182; Hume on, 
xxxvii, 307; Hymn by, xl, 410; 
xlv, 547; Johnson on Cato 
of, xxvii, 196-7; xxxix, 238; 
Latin compositions of, early, 167; 
Letter to Halifax, 169, 193; Life 
and works of, 76; Life by John- 
son, 1 65-2 11; marriage of, 182- 
183; Old Whig papers, 185, 186; 
on Chaucer, xxviii, 81; on criti- 
cism of art, xxiv, 28; on love of 
beauty in animals, 39; on the 
rotund in building, 65 note; 
papers for the Guardian, xxvii, 
179-80; Peerage Bill Pamphlet, 
184-5; plans a dictionary, 184; 
Poems, early, 167-8; poetry of, 
estimate on, 192-208; Political 
Papers, 180-1; Prose, 211; Re- 
gent, secretary to, 181-2; reli- 
gion, 115; Rosamond, 170, 195-6; 
Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 137; 
Secretary of State, xxvii, 183; 
Shelley on Cato, 357-8; The 
Spectator, 88, 172, 174-5. i79. 
181; Steele, relations with, 166, 
170, 176, 177, 184-6; The Tatler, 
171-2; Tender Husband, ..part 
in, 170; Thackeray on, xxviii, 7; 
Tragedy on Socrates, xxvii, 183; 
travels, 168-9; Under-Secretary, 
170; Vision of Mirza, 77-81; 
Voltaire on Cato, xxxiv, 138; 
xxxix, 238; Westminster Ab- 
bey, xxvii, 82-5; Wharton, Lord, 
secretary to, 170-1 

Addison, Lancelot, father of Jo- 
seph, xxvii, 165 

Adeimantus, son of Ariston, ii, 21 

Adeimantus, son of Leucolophus, 
viii, 466 

Adeodatus, son of St. Augustine, 
vii, 3, 100, 152; grief of, over 
Monica, 161 

Ades, reference to, iv, 135 

Adeste Fideles, xlv, 567-8 

Adhibhuta, Adhidaiva, etc., xlv, 835 

Adhyatman, xlv, 835, 846 

Adimantus, Athenian general, xii, 
148 

Admetus, king of Molossians, xii, 

27 
Administratio, defined, xxxvi, 298 
Admirable Crichton, (see Crichton) 
Admiral, origin of name, xxxv. 



377 
idr 



Admiralty Cases, (U. S.), xliii, 

202 (Sec. 2) 

Admiration, Byron on, xli, 813; 

caused by ignorance, xxiv, 55 » 



GENERAL INDEX 



133 



defined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 355; 
degrees of, ii, 236 (14); excited 
by the perilous, ix, 364; inferior 
degree of astonishment, xxiv, 5 1 ; 
Pascal on love of, xlviii, 60, 
(150-1); unknown to animals, 
xlviii, 132 (401) 
Admlithe, the jester, xlix, 258 
Admonition, Winthrop on use of, 

xliii, 99-100 
Adcedatus (see Adeodatus) 
Adolius, xxxviii, 412 
Adonais, Shelley*s, xli, 879-93 
Adonijah, and Solomon, xliii, 99 
Adonis, references to, iv, 73, loi, 

274 
Adoration, David on, xli, 504-8; 
"pure, which God likes best," 
iv, 176 
Adoxa, Darwin on the, xi, 225 
Adramelech, Milton on, iv, 216 
Adrastos, viii, 188 note 
Adrastus, king of Argos, xii, 248 

note; in Hades, xiii, 22-7 
Adrian, Roman Emperor (see 

Hadrian) 
Adrian V, Pope, Dante on, xx, 

225-6, note 8 
Adrian VI, Pope, xxxvi, 106-7 
Adrian, in The Tempest xlvi, 398, 

399, 423 
Adrian, Dying to His Soul, xl, 408 
Adulation, Burke on, xxiv, 157 
Adulterjr in biblical times, xliii, 
100; in Dante's Hell, xx, 22-'^-, 
in old England, xxxv, 384-5; in 
old Massachusetts, xliii, 85 (9) ; 
in Utopia, xxxvi, 22^^ 224; Jesus 
on, xliv, 404 (18); Job on, 121 
(9-12); Mohammed on, xlv, 982; 
punishment of, in ancient Ger- 
many, xxxiii, 106 
Advancement in Life, Channing on, 
xxviii, 324-31; Confucius on, 
xliv, 52 (5); Ruskin on, xxviii, 
96-7, 131-2 
Adversity, Christ's sake, for, vii, 
249 (5), 263-7; Cicero on, ix, 15, 
16, 31; despair in, vii, 278, 306 
(6), 343; Ecclesiastes on, xliv, 
348 (14); Kempis on, vii, 224, 
283 (2), 306 (4); love and, viii, 
29; Pascal on, xlviii, 46 (107), 
361; Penn on, i, 360 (239); 
prosperity of greatness, v, 301; 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 70, 100-3; 
religion and,^ iii, 46; strength 
proved by, vii, 229, (4) ; truth's 
sake, for, i, 200 
Adversity, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

16-17 
Adversity, Hymn to, Gray's, xl, 

462 
Advice, ^sop on interested, xvii, 
38; Bacon on, of friends, iii, 73-4, 
X26; Carlyle on, xxv, 377; Cicero 



on, ix, 24, 39; in difficulties, xvii, 
46; Kempis on giving and receiv- 
ing, vii, 221 (3); Mill on liberty 
of, xxv, 307; of parents, xxxvii, 
87; Pliny on seeking, ix, 356 (see 
also Counsel) 
Advocates and judges, iii, 138-9 
Ae Fond Kiss and Then We 

Sever, vi, 455 
^acus, judge in Hades, ii, 28 
^acus, porter in The Frogs, viii, 

«2-3, 437-9» 441-3 
^antodorus, ii, 21 
yEetes, brother of Circe, xxii, 140 
^gseon, and Jove, xiii, 346 (see 

also Briareus) 
^gina, in Persian war, xii, 21; 

Pericles on, 44-5 
i^gisthus, in Agamemnon, viii, 65- 
70; Clytemnestra on, 60; Homer 
on, xxii, 10, 17, 39, 40-2, (i2\ in 
The Libation-Bearers, viii, 104- 
6; Orestes on, 84, iii 
^gospotami, battle of, xii, 148-9 
^gyptus, in the Odyssey, xxii, 22-3 
^lius, Sextus, Cicero on, ix, 55 
-(Ella, Song from, xli, 571-2 
^Iroth, xlix, 139 
-(Emilianus, Minutius, ix, 209-11 
yEmilianus, Scipio (see Scipio) 
^milius, Papus, ix, 22 
^milius, Paulus, and the king of 
Macedon, xxxii, 16; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 134 (409, 410) 
i^neas, adventures related by, xiii, 
103-55; Africa, landing of, in, 
81-2; Anchises's funeral games 
celebrated by, 184-202; Anchises 
rescued by, 125-8; arms of, 
brought by Venus, 292-6; arms 
of, made by Vulcan, 286-7; Cer- 
vantes on, xiv, 224; Carthage, en- 
tered by, xiii, 00-2; Carthage, pre- 
pares to sail from, 170-1; Carth- 
age, second warning to fly from, 
176-7; Carthage, warned to leave, 
164-7; Chaonia, voyage of, to, 
140; Crete, settles in, 1346; 
Creusa, ghost of, and, 129-30; 
Dante places, in Limbo, xx, 20; 
Dido and, go hunting, xiii, 161-2; 
Dido curses, 178-9; Dido, first 
meeting with, 93, 96-102; Dido, 
love of, for, 156-9; Dido re- 
proaches, 167-70; Dryden on Vir- 
gil's, xiii, 9, 19, 20-39; xxxix, 
165, 166; Evander's aid sought by, 
xiii, 274-84; 287-92; fire on ships 
of, 205; Hades visited by, 215- 
42; Helenus and Andromache re- 
ceive, 141 -7; hell, visit to, re- 
ferred to, XX, 9-10, note i; Italy, 
first landing in, xiii, 148-9; Italy, 
warned to seek, 136-7; Jove 
prophesies success of, 84; Juno 
persecutes, 75; Latium, arrival 



134 



GENERAL INDEX 



in, 243-8; Mezentius and Lausus 
killed by, 353-9; Pallas, body of, 
sent back by, 361-4; parents 
of, Venus and Anchises, 97; 
prayer and agreement of, 400-1 ; 
ships of, turned to nymphs, 299- 
302; Sibyl visited by, 211-15; 
Sicily, driven to, by storm, 182- 
3; Sicily, first landing in,^ 150-5; 
Sicily, leaves settlement in (cf. 
Dante, p. 222), 206-7; Sidney on, 
xxvii, 13, 20, 26, 32; Spenser on, 
xxxix, 65; storm overtakes, xiii, 
78-9; Strophades, landing of, in 
the, 138-40; Thrace in, 132-3; 
Trojan war, in, 371; trophy erect- 
ed by, 360-1 ; Troy, in sack of, 
112-24; Troy, sets sail from, 131; 
Troy, withdrawal from, xxxix, 
235; Turnus challenged to single 
combat by, xiii, 364; Turnus, final 
combat with, 419-28; Turnus, pre- 
pares for combat with, 398; 
Turnus, war with, 263-4; Turnus, 
war with, renewed, 410-15; Venus 
heals, wounded, 406-9; Venus, 
meeting of, with, 86-9 

^neas, palsied man healed by 
apostles, xliv, 450 (33-5) 

iEneid, The, Dryden's translation, 
xiii, 75-428; Arguments of, writ- 
ten by Addison, xxvii, 167; 
Burke on, xxiv, 20, 57, 63, 75, 
143; Caxton's Prologue to, xxxix, 
25-8; Dryden on machinery of, 
xiii, 48-52; Dryden on his trans- 
lation of, 52-72; Dryden's de- 
fence of, 14-44; editorial remarks 
on, 4; Homer's influence on, 
xxxix, 165; Milton on, iv, 264; 
Montaigne on, xxxii, 92, 95; 
time of, 44-8; time of composition, 
54; willed by Virgil to be burned, 

19 
^nobarbus, Domitius, xii, 367 
^olus, called Hippotades, iv, 76; 
in the ^neid, xiii, 77-9; jailer of 
the winds, 80; Ulysses and, xxii, 
136-8 
Aeronautics, in New Atlantis, iii, 

188 
^schere, xlix, 43, 45, 65 ^^ 
^schines, the orator, xii, 209-10, 
217-18; metaphors of, ix, 367; on 
Demosthenes, xii, 199, 207; ix, 
224-5, 3^^ 
yEschines, son of Lysanias, ii, 21, 47 
/Eschylus, Aristophanes on,^ viii, 
465-6; on Artemis, xxxiii, 81; 
Euripides's dispute with, in The 
Frogs, viii, 441-65; on the here- 
after, ii, 104; House of Atreus, 
viii, 5-155; Hugo on, xxxix, 365; 
life and works of, viii, 3-4; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 417; Montaigne on 
death of, xxxii, 13-14; on Per- 



sians, numbers of, xii, 18; Pro- 
metheus Bound, viii, 156-94; 
Shelley on choruses of, xxvii, 348; 
Sophocles beats, in contest, viii, 
196; Sophocles and, compared, 
196; Suppliants of, xxxix, 359; 
Taine^ on, and Euripides, 450; 
Voltaire on tragedies of, 382 

-^sculapius, son of Apollo, xxxviii, 
2; ^schylus on death of, viii, 41; 
Jonson on, xlvii, 589; Virgil on 
death of, xiii, 269 

-^sion, on Demosthenes, xii, 206 
and note 

^sir, northern gods, xlix, 315 note 

^son, son of Tyro, xxii, 158; Medea 
and, xii, 680 

-^sop, author of Fables, xvii, 2; 
Bacon on, iii, 113; Herodotus on, 
xxxiii, 68 

^sop, the tragedian, xii, 229; Cicero 
on, ix, 112 

-^sop's Fables, xvii, 9-46; Caxton's 
Epilogue to, xxxix, 18-19; edi- 
torial remarks on, xvii, 2, 3; 
Emerson on, v, 183; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 141, 172; Montaigne on, 
xxxii, 92; Sidney on, xxvii, 21; 
versified by Socrates, ii, 48, 49 

-^Esthetic Education, Letters on, 
Schiller's, xxxii, 219-313 

Esthetics (see Art, Beauty, Taste) 

-Estivation, of animals, xxix, m^, 

-Estyans, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 
1 2 1-2 

-Ethiops, river, viii, 184, note 56 

^tna, ^schylus on, viii, 168-9; 
Milton on, iv, 96; Virgil on, xiii, 
150 

Afer, Domitius, Pliny on, ix, 230-1 ; 
will of, 344 

Affability, a source of power, xxxiv, 
375 

Affairs, great, by what performed, 
ix, 52 

Affectation, Fielding on, xxxix, 188- 
9; Locke on, xxxvii, 48-50; of 
simplicity, ii, 293 (15) 

Affectation, in speech, i, 401 (121); 
of wisdom, iii, 67-9 

Affection, never wasted, xiii, 1385; 
"oft the spring of woe," vi, 204; 
praises of, xl, 308; (see also 
Love) 

Affliction, Browne on, iii, 318; David's 
prayer in, xliv, 158-9; Elihu on, 
131 (8-1 1, 15-16); Eliphaz on, 79 
(6, 7), 80 (17-19); Emerson on 
compensation for, v, 107; Herbert 
on, XV, 393, 394-5; Kempis on 
patience under, vii, 226 (8), 291-2, 
304-5, 312 (2); Longfellow on, 
xiii, 1330; Mohammedan proverb 
on, xvi, 82; Pascal on temporal, 
xlviii, 355; "sons of, brothers in 
distress," vi, 263; wisdom learned 



GENERAL INDEX 



135 



by, viii, it; Woolman on, 1,206-7, 

246-7 
Affliction of Margaret, xH, 660-2 
Affronts, Penn on bearing, i, 356 

(182-5) 
Afranius, Lucius, Cicero on, ix, 99, 

165; in civil war, xii, 306, 310, 

318-19 
Africa, backward state of, cause of, 

X, 28; Herodotus on, xxxiii, 20; 

vegetation and animals of, xxix, 

97-9 

Africanus, Julius, ix, 315 

Africanus, Scipio (see Scipio) 

After-games, i, 365 (302) 

Afton, Sweet, vi, 443 

Agabus, xliv, 455 (28), 478 (lo-ii) 

Agace, Gobin, xxxv, 19-20, 21 

Agag, Samuel on, xxxix, 82 

Agamemnon, Achilles and, xiii, 15; 
burial of, viii, 88-9; Cassandra 
foresees death of, 44-54; Homer 
on return and death of, xxii, 38, 39, 
40, 61-2, 162-3; in Hades, 162-4, 
33 1-3 » Iphigenia, sacrifice of, by, 
viii, 12-14; murder of, 55-65; 
Orestes on, 133; Sidney on, 
xxvii, 20; Spenser on, xxxix, 65; 
in Trojan war, viii, 7-11, 23-4; 
xxii, 106; Virgil on death of, xiii, 
370 

Agamemnon, Tragedy of, yEschy- 
lus's, viii,^ 5-70; compared with 
Lear, xxvii, 356 

Agapetus, Eishop, xx, 308, note 6 

Agariste, mother of Pericles, xii, 38 

Agassiz, Alexander, on echinoder- 
mata, xi, 246, 247 

Agassiz, Louis, on amblyopsis, xi, 
152; on embryological characters, 
456; on embryos, 388, 489; on his 
first lecture, xxviii, 465; on gla- 
cial period, xi, 412 ; on immutabil- 
ity of species, 363 ; on movement 
of glaciers, xxx, 235; on syn- 
thetic types, xi, 378; on tertiary 
species, 350 

Agassiz [Louis], Fiftieth Birth- 
day OF, Longfellow's, xiii, 1346 

Agatha, St., Kempis on, vii, 321, 
note 2 

Agatharchus, Alcibiades and, xii, 
124; Zeuxis and, 51 

Agathocles, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 
30-1, 33 

Agathon, Aristophanes on, viii, 421; 
in Dante's Limbo, xx, 238; quoted, 
ii, 216 (18) 

Agathonius, age of, ix, 71 

Agave, mother of King Pentheus in 
the Bacch^, viii, 349-415; doom 
of, 412-1^; leader of Bacchanals, 
379-81; slays Pentheus, 399-400 

Age (see also Old Age) ; not to be 
regarded, viii, 265; legal, in 
Massachusetts, xliii, 78 (53) 



Agelaus, in the Odyssey, xxii, 292-3, 
^ 310, 313, 314, 315 
Agents, Bacon on choice of, iii, 124; 

Hobbes on, xxxiv, 430-1 
Agesilaus, Bacon on, iii, 24, 113; 
Cicero on, ix, 107; on happiness, 
xxxii, 5 
Aggravation, punishment of priests, 

xxxvi, 323 note 
Agincourt, Drayton's, xl, 226-30 
Agincourt, Macaulay on, xii, 940-1 
Agio, defined, x, 376; of Amsterdam 

Bank, 267-8 
Agis I of Sparta, and Alcibiades, 

xii, 132-3 
Agis II of Sparta, xii, 217 
Agis III, Emerson on, v, 191 
Agis the Lycian, xiii, 352-3 
Aglauros, in Dante's Purgatory, xx, 

205 
Agli, Lotto degli, xx, 59 note 
Aglovale, Sir, xxxv, 134 
Agnes, St., Luther on, xxxvi, 316, 

342 
Agnes, St., Eve of, Keats's, xii, 907 
Agnese, in The Betrothed (see 

Mondella, Agnese) 
Agnolo, Baccio d', xxxi, 430 note 3 
Agnolo, Giuliano di Baccio d', xxxi, 

409, 430 
Agnolo, Michel, father of Bandi- 

nello, xxxi, 14-15 
Agnolo, Michel, the Sienese, xxxi, 

57 note I, 62 
Agnolo, Michel (Buonarroti) (see 

Michelangelo) 
Agnosticism, Huxley on, xxviii, 216 
Agostino, XX, 339 note 31 
Agouti, Darwin on the, xxix, 81 
Agrarian Laws, of Rome, xxxv, 319 
Agravaine, reference to, xiii, 1235 
Agreeableness, Pascal on, xlviii, 426 
Agreement, always silent, xxv, 333; 

a way of honoring, xxxiv, 379 
Agrican, and Angelica, iv, 396-7 
Agricola, Julius, Milton on, iii, 234; 

Tacitus and, xxxiii, 94 
Agricultural schools, Cowley on, 
xxvii, 69-70; Ticknor on, xxviii, 
380 
Agricultural systems, of political 

economy, x, 446-67 
Agriculture, capital, best employ- 
ment for, X, 305-6, 321 
Agriculture, Cicero on pleasures of, 
ix, 64-8; combinations in, x, 134; 
effect of, on prices of bread and 
meat, 157-9; Emerson on, v, 52; 
European i)olicy not favorable to, 
X, 6, 136; improvement in, 191-4; 
in Utopia, ^ xxxvi, 183-4, 188-9; 
labor, division of, in, x, 11 -12; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 186-7; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 349; manufactures com- 
pared with, X, 11-12; manufac- 
tures, relation to, 230-1, 319-229 



136 



GENERAL INDEX 



465-6; military spirit and, xxvii, 
391; Milton on study of, iii, 252-3; 
prices in general, x, 200; protect- 
ive tariffs and, 355; Rousseau on, 
xxxiv, 182-3, 21 1 -1 2; skill re- 
quired in, high, X, 134-6; taxes 
on profits of, 526; wealth, best 
source of, iii, 93; Woolman on, 
i, 204 note 

Agriculture, Essay on, Cowley's, 
xxvii, 65-74 

Agrippa, King, St. Paul and, xliv, 
487 (13-27), 488 (i), 490 (27-32) 

Agrippa, Cornelius, Emerson on, v, 
183; in Faustus, xix, 203-5; oil 
science, xxvii, 33 

Agrippa, Marcus, Antony and, xviii, 
23; at Actium, xii, 386-7; xiii, 
295; Augustus and, iii, 71; mar- 
riages of, xii, 403; Octavia and, 
361 

Agrippa, Menenius, xii, 157; Sidney 
on, xxvii, 27 

Agrippina, daughter of Antony, xviii, 
60-1 ; daughter of Germanicus, xii, 
403 

Agrippinus, Florus and, ii, 119 

Aguarus, xxxv, 156 

Aguecheek, Sir Andrew, Macaulay 
on, xxvii, 404 

Aguilar, Pedro de, xiv, 408-9; son- 
nets of, 410 

A.guirre, Lope de, xxxiii, 333-4 

Ahab, reference to, iv, 372 

Ahala, C. Servilius, ix, 66 

Ahasuerus, Dante on, xx, 215 

Ahauton, the Indian, xliii, 152 

Ahaz, Rimmon and, iv, 102 

Ahenobarbus, Domitius, xii, 403 

Ahitophel, Dante on, xx, 120 

Ahriman (see Arimanes) 

Ai, Duke, xliv, 8 (19), 11 (21), 18 
(2), 40 (p), 49 (22) 

Aias (see Ajax) 

Aiguillon, siege of, xxxv, 5, 7 

Aiguillon, Duke d*, Burke on, xxiv, 
262 

Aiken, ^ Robert, Burns's inscription 
to, vi, 142; Epitaph for, vi, 229; 
references to, vi, 75, 77, 235, 372, 
note 4 

Aims, high, Browning on, xlii, 1133; 
Johnson on, xxxix, 208 

AiNSLiE, Miss, Epigram to, Burns's, 
vi, 280 

Air, composition of, xxx, 150-1; 
elasticity of, 155-6; life without 
(see Anaerobian Life) ; needed 
for combustion, 107-8; pressure 
of, 152-5; resistance of, 18, 155; 
temperature dependent on press- 
ure, 222; weight of, 52, 151-2 

Air-burner, the, xxx, 114 note 

AiRivY Beacon, xlii, 11 01 -2 

Ajax (Aias), son of Telamon, xxii, 
164, 331; Hector and, v, 97; mad- 



ness of, xxvii, 20; Socrates on,ii, 

28; Ulysses and, xxii, 166; son 

of Oileus, xxii, 61 
A jib, King, xvi, 99 
Akber Khan, pigeons of, xi, 43 
A Kempis (see Kempis, Thomas a) 
Aladdin (see Ala-ed-Din) 
Alaean Twins, xiii, 231 (see Ephi- 

altes and Otus) 
Ala-ed-Din ^ and the Wonderful 

Lamp, xvi, 355-443; manuscripts 

Alagia, wife of Malaspina, xx, 226 

note 
Alamanni, Luigi, xxxi, 90 note 4; 
Cellini and, 90, 95, 270, 271, 272^ 
288, 312, 333. 
Alam-ed-in Senjer, xvi, 218-19 
Alaopolitanes, Nephelogetes and, 

xxxvi, 229 
Alara Kalama, xlv, 7^2-4, 739 
Alaska Purchase, xliii, 459-63 
Alaskie, Albert, v, 433 
Alba Longa, Virgil on, xiii, 84 
Albanians, Freeman on the, xxviii, 

273-4, 275-6 
Albany, The Bonie Lass of. 

Burns*, vi, 299 
Albany, Duke of, in Lear, xlvi, 203, 
205, 207; before battle, 289; Corn- 
wall, war with, 229, 249; Edgar 
with, 297; Edmund with, 293-5; 
France, war against, 275; Glouces- 
ter's wrongs, 271-2; Goneril's 
death and, 299; (joneril de- 
nounced by, 296; Goneril's letter 
to, 290; Goneril with, 226-8, 270-1 ; 
Lear and Cordelia sent for, by, 
299; Lear with, 225, 226; plot 
against, 284; resigns power, 301 
Albany Convention, Franklin on, i, 

129-31 
Albatross, Dana on the, xxiii, 37-8; 

food of the, xxix, 176 
Albemarle Island, Darwin on, xxix, 

398. 
Alberigo, the friar, xx, 141 and 

note 4 
Alberigo of Como, xxxvi, 46 
Albero of Sienna, xx, 124 note 5 
Albert I, Emperor, Dante on, xx, 
170, 369 notes 5 and 6; Switzer- 
land, conduct of, toward, xxvi, 
466; murder of, 463-4 
Albert,^ Archbishop of Mayence, 
xxxvi, 295 note; Luther's address 
to, 261 
Albert!, Alessandro and Napoleone, 

XX, 134 and note 2 
Alberto, Abbot, xx, 221, note 8 
Albertus Magnus, xx, 329, note 15 
Albin, in Polyeucte, xxvi, 78-9, 

97-100, 111-12, 118 
Albinus, Clodius, governor of Brit- 
ain, xxvii, 11; rival of Severus, 
xxxvi, 68 



GENERAL INDEX 



137 



Albinus, Spurius, ix, 47 

Albinus, D. Brutus surnamed, xii, 

327 
Albinus, correspondent of Pliny, ix, 

296 
Albizzi, Girolamo degli, xxxi, 425 

and note 
Al-Borak, reference to, xlii, 1434 
/ Albracca, siege of, iv, 396; xiv, 82 

Albret, Perducas d', xxxv, ^2^ 80 
; Albuquergiies, killed by Don Pedro, 

xxxix, 88 
, Alc^us, Ode in Imitation of, xli, 

592-3 
Alcandre, her gifts to Helen, xxii, 

51 

Alcanor, xiii, 320, 338 

Alcavala, of Spain, x, 565 

Alcestis, Milton on, iv, 88; Ruskin 
on, xxviii, 146; Wordsworth on, 
xli, 680 

Alchemist, The, xlvii, 519-635; re- 
marks on, 518 

Alchemy, Emerson on, v, 307-8; 
metal, the, xxxv, 341-2; punish- 
ment of, in Dante's Hell, xx, 
124-5 

Alcibiades, accused of impiety, xii, 
127-9; Andros expedition and, 
146; Aristophanes on, viii, 463; 
Athenian government, attempts to 
change, made by, xii, 134-6; 
Athens' power of, strengthened 
by, 123; Athens, return of, to, 
143-5; at Potidaea, 11 5-1 6; Anytus 
and, 113-14; Bacon on, iii, 112; 
birth of, xii, no; Bithynia and 
Phrygia, retires to, 149; childhood 
anecdotes of, iii ; condemned, 131; 
Coriolanus and, compared, 192-6; 
death of, 150-1; Emerson on, v, 
275; Eupolis and, ix, 154; ex- 
cesses of, endured by Athenians, 
xii, 124; General, 136-7; Hippo- 
nicus and, 116; league broken by, 
121; marriage of, 116-17; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 59-60; naval vic- 
tory of, xii, 137; Nicias's jealousy 
of, 1 20-1; Olympic games, success 
of, at, 118-19; Pericles and, no, 
112, 115; rivals of, in public life, 
119-20; Socrates's relations with, 
T12-16 (see also xlvi, 25); Sparta, 
life of, at, 132-3; Syracuse, expedi- 
tion of, to, 125, 130; Thrasybulus's 
accusation against, 147; Timon 
of Athens and, 124, 391; Tisaph- 
ernes with, 133, 138; treason of, 
131; warns the generals, 148 

Alcibiades, Life of, Plutarch's, xii, 
II 0-5 1 

Alcidamas, Moliere on, xxvi, 204-5 

Alcides (see Hercules) 

Alcinous, king of Phaeacia, xxii, 85; 
Poseidon and, 185-6; descent and 
marriage of, 95; gardens of, iv, 



274; Milton on feast of, 22; 

Ulysses received by, xxii, 98-119; 

Ulysses sent on way, 181-2 
Alcis, German god, xxxiii, 120 
Alcmaeon, son of Amphiaraus, xxii, 

214; Dante on, xx, 194, 302 
Alcmena, Heracles's mother, xxii, 

158; xl, 247; Homer on, xxii, 25; 

Herodotus on, xxxiii, 26 
Alcohol, produced by fruits in car- 
bonic acid gas, xxxviii, 318-25 
Alcoholic fermentation, xxxviii, 290- 

3i7» 324-5 note, zzy-zz, 356, 362- 

79 
Alcoholic ^ liquors, Burke on taste 

for, xxiv, 16; Locke on, xxxvii, 

20-1 
Alda, Roland betrothed, xlix, 96, 

162, 198-9 
Aldobrandesco, Omberto, xx, 190-1 

note I 
Aldobrandi, Bertino, xxxi, 103-4 
Aldobrandi, Tegghiaio, xx, 68 and 

note 2 
Aldobrandino, Clement VIII called, 

xviii, 283 
Ale, Harrison on English, xxxv, 300 
Ale, Jolly Good, and Old, xl, 192-4 
Alecto, in the ^neid, xiii, 254-63; 

Dante on, xx, 38 
Alengon, Earl 01, at Cressy, xxxv, 

26y 28, ^o 
Aleotti, Giovanni, xxxi, 125 note 2 
Alesia, siege of, xiij 297-8 
Alessio, in Dante's Hell, xx, 78; in 

The Betrothed, xxi, 447, 449 
Alethes, in the ^neid, xiii, 79, 305, 

307 
Alexander, Helen and, xxxiii, 55-7 
Alexander, of Antioch, xii, 372, 373 
Alexander, of Syria, xii, 387 
Alexander, the grammarian, ii, 195 

(10) 
Alexander, the Jew, xliv, 474 (33-4) 
Alexander, the Platonic, ii, 195 (12) 
Alexander, the false prophet, xxxvii, 

405-6 
Alexander, king of Macedonia, at 

Plataea, xii, 95-6 
Alexander the Great, Achilles and, 
xiii, 28; XV, 21Z\ xxvii, 39; xxxvi, 
52; age of, at conquest of Asia, 
iv,^ 389; Apelles and, ix, 107; 
Aristotle and, xxxii, 55; at Arbela, 
iii, 78; Athens, orators of, xii, 
216-7; attitude toward arts and 
sciences, xxxii, 55; M. Aurelius 
on, ii, 207 (3), 238 (24), 257 (3), 
274 (29); Browne on, iii, 291; 
Cervantes on, xiv, 1513; chastity 
and drunkenness of, xlviii, 45 
(103); Curtius on, xxxvii, 375; 
Dante on, xx, 53; Darius's box 
and, xiv, 54; dogs of, xxxv, 375; 
Emerson on, v, 211, 275; Hephes- 
tion and, xlvi, 25; his wish for 



138 



GENERAL INDEX 



more worlds to conquer, xxxix, 
333; Pindar and, iv, 80; liberality 
of, xxxvi, 56; Marlowe on, xix, 
230; melancholy of, iii, 51; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 13; one of nine 
worthies, xxxix, 21; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 51 (1^2), 239 (701); the 
Plataeans and, xii, 93; reproved 
for playing well, 37; reason of 
security of his conquests, xxxvi, 
16-18; Sidney on, xxvii, 39; the 
shower of flame and, xx, 60; sup- 
posed prophecy of, xlviii, 252-3 
Alexander III, Pope, exile of, xxvii, 

386 
Alexander VI, Pope, Caesar Borgia, 
father of, xxxvi, 15; church, ag- 
grandizement of the, 41 ; frauds 
of, 60; King Louis and, 14, 15, 
25; son, efforts to aggrandize his, 
24-5, 28 
Alexander, James, 1, 130 
Alexander Pheraeus, xxvii, 30 
Alexander Severus, Machiavelli on, 

xxxvi, 66, 67, 71 
Alexander, Wilhelmina, vi, 190, 

note 7 
Alexander, William, To Aurora, xl, 

322-3 
Alexander's Feast, xl, 400-6 
Alexandridas, Montaigne on, xxxii, 

46 

Alexandrine philosophy, Taine on 
the, xxxix, 451, 455 note 

Alexandrine verse, Dryden on, xiii, 
56 

Alexas of Laodicea, xii, 393; char- 
acter in All for Love, xviii, 21- 
100; Antony told by, of Cleo- 
patra's death, 90; Antony's mes- 
senger, 40; Cleopatra denounced, 
84-5; on Ventidius, 51; Ventidius 
with, 26; with the priests, 22-4 

Alexis, Here She Stayed, xl, 

338-9 
Alf, son of Hjalprek, xlix, 300-1, 
360-1 ; remarks on story of, 267 
Alfonso X (The Wise), Bacon on, 

iii, 136 
Alfred the Great, called the truth- 
speaker, V, 388; crowned and 
buried at Winchester, 480-1; Em- 
erson on, 15; book, how he won 
the, 419 
Algalif, the, xlix, 113, 114, 168, 169 
Algarsife, reference to, iv, 38 
Algebra, Descartes on, xxxiv, 17, 19 
Ali, in Dante's Hell, xx, 117; quo- 
tation from, V, 87; and Moham- 
med, xlv, 1002 note 17 
Ali-Baba and the Forty Thieves, 

xvi, 443-60 
Alichino, the demon, xx, 90, 94 
Alicorno, Traiano, xxxi, 96 note, 

126, 151, 153 
Alidosi, Lito, degli, xx, 352 note 12 



Alienations, in Massachusetts, xliii, 

72 (10, II, 14, 15) 
Alifamfaron, Pentapolin and, xiv, 

146-7 ^ 
Alighieri, grandfather of Dante, xx, 

351 note 2 
Alisto of Cos, alluded to, ix, 46 
All for Love, Dryden's, xviii, 11- 

loi; remarks on, 4; Byron's poem, 

xii, 809-10 
A' the Airts the Wind Can Blaw, 

vi, 323-4 
All-Prayer, weapon of Christian, xv, 

67 

Allan, John, Poe and, xxviii, 382 

Allan, Dr., on Diodon, xxix, 24; on 
Holuthuriae, 490 

Allan Stream, By, vi, 498-9 

Allegories, barbarous nations among, 
xxiv, 18; Bunyan on, xv, 8; Spen- 
ser on, xxxix, 65 

Allegretti, Antonio, xxxi, loi note 
5, 169, 173 

Allemand, Francois 1 , xxxi, 293 
note 

Allen, John, translator of Calvin, 
xxxix, I 

Allen, Richard, xxxiii, 170 

Allen, William, i, iii 

Allerleirauh, story of, xvii, 172-7 

Alliances, provision for, under Con- 
federation, xliii, 172, 175; under 
constitution, 198 (10), 199 (3); 
Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 76-8; More 
on, 226; Washington on, xliii, 
263-4 

Alligators, fights of male, xi, 101 

Allingham, William, The Fairies, 
xlii, 1 162-3 

Allori, Angelo (II Bronzino), xxxi, 
418 note, 428 

Allston, Washington, Coleridge on, 

V, 33i» 333 

Alluvium, land made of, xxxiii, 9-10; 
saliferous, in Peru, xxix, 385; 
stratified, in Andes valleys, 334-5 

Allworth, Lady, in New Way to 
Pay Old Debts, in mourning, 
xlvii, 823, 826; at home, 827-8; 
with Tom, 828-30; scene with 
Wellborn, 833-5; welcomes Well- 
born and Marrall to dinner, 843- 
4; after dinner, 846; thought to 
be in love with Wellborn, 849-50; 
at Overreach's, 863-4, 866, 867; 
at home, with Lovell, 873-6; recon- 
ciliation with Lovell, 885-7; with 
Wellborn, 887-8; with Overreach, 
889, 890, 891, 893, 895-6; in final 
scene, 896, 897 

Allworth, Tom, in New Way to 
Pay Old Debts, xlvii, with Well- 
born at Tapwell's, 822-5 ; at home, 
with servants, 827; with Lady All- 
worth, 828-30;^ shuns Wellborn, 
832; parting with servants, 840-1; 



GENERAL INDEX 



139 



reconciled to Wellborn, 842; with 
Lovell on way to Overreach's, 
851-4; at Overreach's, 859, 860, 
^ 862-3, 867; discharged from serv- 
ice, 869; as messenger to Mar- 
garet, 870; scene with Margaret, 
881-5; Lovell on, 886; married to 
Margaret, 894; in final scene, 896, 
898 

Almagro, Diego, xxxiii, 327 
Almaris, King, xlix, 125, 146 
Almasour, in Roland, xlix, 129, 141 
Almeni, Sforza, xxxi, 381 note 
Almon, son of Tyrrheus, xiii, 261-2 
Alms, Buddha on, xlv, 607; Krishna 
on, 876; Mohammed on, 893 note 
I, 894, 970, 985; never impover- 
ish, V, 27 
Alnaschar, story of, xvi, 187-94 
Aloeus, and Iphimedeia, xxii, 160 
Alonso, king of Naples, in The Tem- 
pest, in shipwreck, xlvi, 380, 381; 
his previous conspiracy with An- 
tonio, 385; in island after wreck, 
397-403; plot against, 405-6; awak- 
ened by Ariel, 406-7; in search for 
Ferdinand, 419-20; at the banquet, 
420-1; denounced by Ariel, 422-3; 
imprisoned by Ariel, 432; in final 
scene, 434*42 
Alonso, Peter, and Don Quixote, 

xiv, 48 
Alonzo III, of Arragon, Dante on, 

XX, 176 and note 12 
Alpha Centauri, distance of, xxx, 

330 
Alphabet, methods of teaching, 

xxxvii, 138-9, 140 
Alphebo, to Don Quixote, xiv, 16 
Alphel, Sir Edmund, xxxv, 85 
Alpheus and Arethusa, iv, 44; xiii, 

154 
Alphonsus of Castile, Bacon on, iii, 

136 
Alps, Byron or« the, xli, 813; Gold- 
smith on states seen from, 533; 
- Helmholtz on the, xxx, 221-4; 

glaciers of, 226-41 
Alps, Witch of the, in Manfred, 

xyiii, 418-22 
Alric, and Eric, v, 357 
' Alsus, and Podalirius, xiii, 405-6 
; Alswid, xlix, 327, 328, 329 
\ Altabin, king of Atlantis, iii, 166-7 
I Alternate generation, Darwin on, xi, 

478 
Alternation, the law of nature, v, 

1 12 
Althea, ^schylus on, viii, 96 
Althea, to, from Prison, xl, 365-6 
Altho* He Has Left Me, vi, 440 
Altmayer, in Faust, xix, 80-94 
Altoviti, Bindo, xxxi, 399 note i, 

401 
I Altruism, Kant on duty of, xxxii, 

354» 361, ZT^\ Locke on, xxxvii, 



126; Luther on, 384-6, 387, 391; 
Mill on, XXV, 5 ; More on, xxxvi, 
210; St. Paul on, xlv, 515 (24) 

Alum, crystallization of, xxx, 26-7, 
36; fireproofing qualities of , xxxv, 
336 

Aluminium, weight of, xxx, 9 note 2 

Alva, Duke of, at Metz, xxxviii, 20; 
Egmont, character in Goethe s, 
xix, 247-331; Egmont's arrest 
planned by, 299-302; Egmont on, 
2,2Z\ Egmont with, 303-11; Gomez 
on, 297-8; in the Netherlands, 
246; Netherlands, ruler of, 292-3; 
Netherlands, sent to, 281, 285-6; 
Orange, arrest of, planned by, 
299-302; Orange thwarts, 302-3; 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 91 

Alypius, student under St. Augus- 
tine, vii, 90-2; at the gladiatorial 
show, 92-3 ; apprehended as thief, 
93-4; as assessor, 94-5; advises 
against marriage, 97-8; as lawyer, 
131; his conversion, 120, 142, 148; 
baptized with Augustine, 152 

Amadeus, Cardinal, xxxix, 45-6 

Amadis of Gaul, Arcalaus and, xiv, 
123; Cervantes on romance of, 
52; Don Quixote on, loi, 224-5; 
Don Quixote, supposed sonnet of, 
to, 15; Montaigne on, xxxii, 91; 
Oriana and, xiv, 125, 224-5, 239; 
Sidney on romance of, xxvii, 26; 
squire of, xiv, 522; sword of, 145 

Amadis of Greece, xiv, 52 

Amalthea, and Jove, iv, 164; horn 
of, 385; vi, 339 

Amana River, xxxiii, 353 

Amantium Irae, xl, 204-6 

Amantius, friend of Caesar, xii, 317 
note 

Amapaia, xxxiii, 339-41. 373*4 

Amara, Mount, iv, 164 

Amara, town of, xlv, 591 

Amarant, iv, 147 

Amaryllis, reference to, iv, y6 

Amasis, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 83- 
91; Ionian guard 01, 79 

Amastris, city of, ix, 428-9 

Amata, in the ^neid, xiii; i^neas, 
rage against, 255-7; Dante on, xx, 
215 note 2; death of, xiii, 416; 
Turnus tries to dissuade, 396 

Amaurote, capital of Utopia, xxxvi, 
182-3, 185-6 

Amazon River, discovered by Orel- 
lana, xxxiii, 330;^ Thoreau on for- 
ests of the, xxviii, 418 

Amazons, ^schylus^^ on their war 
against Athens, viii, 142; home of 
the, 170 note 25, 181 note 45; 
Columbus on Indian, xliii, 2-j'y 
Raleigh on, xxxiii, 337-8 

Ambassadors (U. S.), appointed by 
President, xliii, 201 (2); foreign, 
received by President, 202; cases 



140 



GENERAL INDEX 



aflFecting, 202 (2) ; under the Con- 
federation, 172 
Amber, Tacitus on, xxxiii, 122 
Ambiorix, xii, 295 note 

Ambition, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
29, 199-200; Bacon on enviousness 
of, iii, 25; Burke on, xxiv, 45-6; 
Burns on, vi, 233, 262, 325, 337; 
Carlyle on, xxv, 401, 437, 465; 
Epictetus on, ii, 131 (43), 146 
(79); Hobbes on, xxxiv, 354* 381, 
387; Milton on, iv, 97, 268; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 120; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 417-18, 421; Penn on, i, 
399-400; Pope on, xl, 430-1; Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 229; Ruskin on 
common, xxviii, 96-8; Shakespeare 
on, xlvi, 124, 332; Webster on, 
xlvii, 735 „ . ... 

Ambition, Essay on, Bacon s, m, 
98-100 

Amble, in New Way to Pay Old 
Debts, xlvii, 825-7, 830, 832, 841, 
842, 845-6, 874, 897 

Amblyrhynchus, Darwin on the, 
xxix, 408-13, 418 

Amboise, Cardinal d', xxxvi, 15, 29 

Ambrogio, in The Betrothed, xxi, 
124-5, 131 ^ .0 

Ambrose, St., Augustine, St., on, 
vii, 80, 84-5; Donne, Dr., com- 
parison of, with, XV, 346; Jus- 
tina persecutes, vii, 153; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 280; Simplicianus, 
father of, vii, 125; verses by, 163 

Ambrosio, the student, xiv, 92, 93, 
106, 112, 117 

Ameipsias, Aristophanes on, viii, 
419-20 

Amendment, Confucius on, xliv, 6 
(8), 30 (23), 41 (21); Kempis 
on, vii, 244-7; Penn on, i, 362 
(262) 

Amendments, Constitutional, xliii, 
204 (5) ; Lincoln on, 342 

America, Bacon on ancient, iii, 143, 
165-7; Browne on animals of, iii, 
287-8; discovery of original docu- 
ments concerning, xliii, 5-S0J Em- 
erson on, v, 473, 480; English 
colonies in, first, xxxiii, 234, 235 
(see also Roanoke, St. John's) ; 
foreign powers in (see Monroe 
Doctrine); natives of, iii, 167-8; 
probable geological changes in, 
xxix, 144; glacial period in, xi, 
418; Hayes on exploration and 
settlement of, xxxiii, 271-5; Hunt 
on, xxvii, 309; Irish monks in, 
xxxii, 183; Pare on Spaniards in, 
xxxviii, 34; Senecas's prophecy of , 
iii» 95» 971 Smith on discovery of, 
X, 343-4» 416-23; Thoreau on, 
xxviii, 418-20; zoology of North 
and South, xxix, 143-4; zoology 
of, changes in, 187-9 (see also 



North America, South America, 
United States) 

American art, Emerson on, v, 84 

American Civil War, documents of, 
original, xliii, 334-458; Lowell on, 
xxviii, 441-5, 455-60; Mill on, 
XXV, 170-3 

American colonies, agriculture and 
cattle in, x, 194-5; currencies in, 
261, 262, 265-7; documents in 
history of, original, xliii, 51-112, 
147-59; England's trade laws for, 
X, 444-5; xliii, 158; exportations 
of meat from, Xj 201; Franklin's 
plan to unite, i, 129-31; Gran- 
ville on royal government of, 
166-7; interest, rates of, in, x, 
97-8; Jefferson on wrongs of, 
xliii, 161-3; manufactures in, x, 
322; newspapers in, i, 20; books 
in, i, 77-8; population in, increase 
of, X, 74-5; settlement of, motives 
of, 416-23; settlements in, situa- 
tion of, 26; slavery in, i, 215-16; 
trade of, bounties on, x, 426-9; 
wages in, 73-4; wealth in, prog- 
ress of, 308-9; Woolman on state 
of, i, 272 

American flag, Haskell on the, xliii, 
404; Longfellow on the, xlii, 

1339 

American Historical Documents, 
xliii 

American Indians (see Indians) 

American literature, Emerson on 
possibilities of, v, 5, 186; Whit- 
man on, xxxix, 409-32 

American mythology, possibilities of 
an, xxviii, 427 ^ 

American Philosophical ^ Society, 
founded by Franklin, i, 3, 109, 
172 

American poets, xlii, 1262-1508 

American political institutions, Em- 
erson on, V, 253-6 

American Revolution, Burke and 
the, xxiv, 5-6; Burns on, vi, 54-6; 
documents of, original, xliii, 160- 
91; Franklin's part in, i, 4, 76, 
173-4; Franklins plan of union 
and, 131; French in the, 142; 
public libraries, influence of, on, 
70; Sheridan on, xviii, 104 

American Scholar, Emerson's, v, 
5-24 

American War, Ballad on the, 
Burns's, vi, 54-6 

Americans, cant of, v, 448; Emer- 
son on interest in, 52; in Eng- 
land, 472; faith and hope lack- 
ing in, 57; materialism of, 287-8; 
Mill on political abilities of, xxv, 
322; morals and religion^ of, v, 
290; Thoreau on, xxviii, 420; 
Whitman on, xxxix, 409-10 

Amerigo, the enameler, xxxi, 50 



GENERAL INDEX 



141 



Amerzene, Andrew, first mate on 
"Pilgrim," xxiii, 419 

Ames, Fisher, on republics and 
monarchies, v, 256 

Ames's Mariner's Sketches, xxiii, 5 
Amici, Professor, v, 330 
Amiens's Song, xl, 273-4 

Aminias, the Decelean, xii, 19 

Amity, sonnet on, xiv, 251 

Ammanato, Bartolommeo, xxxi, 432 
note 2, 438, 439. 445, 446 . 

Ammon, the Libyan Jove, iv, 164 
(see also Amun) ; Alexander 
called son of, xx, 60; xl, 422; 
oracle of, founding of, xxxiii, 
32 

Ammonia, production of, by moulds, 
xxxviii, 313 note; test of organ- 
isms, 358 

Ammonians, Herodotus on the, 
xxxiii, 26 

Amnesty ProcIvAmation, Lincoln's, 
xliii, 442-5 

Amompharetus, xii, 97 

Amoretta, and Busirane, xxxix, 68 

Amos, prophecy of, xlviii, 259 

Amphialus, in the Odyssey, xxii, 
107 

Amphiaraiis, Dante on, xx, 84 and 
note i; Eriphyle and, 302 note 
11; Homer on, xxii, 214; lines 
on, xii, 83 

Amphilochus, son of Amphiaraiis, 
xxii, 214 

Amphimedon, wooer of Penelope, 
xxii, 313, 314; death of, 315; in 
Hades, 334-6 

Amphinomus, suitor of Penelope, 
xxii, 234; advises against killing 
Telemachus, 234-5, 290-1; death 
of, 309; with Odysseus, 258-9, 
266; sees ship of conspirators, 

233^ 
Amphion, founder of Thebes, xxii, 

158; Dante on, xx, 133; refer- 
ence to, V, 249; Sidney on, xxvii, 

8, 14 
Amphithea, grandmother of Ulysses, 

xxii, 278 
Amphitrite, references to., iv, 71; 

viii, 203; xxii, 82, 170 
Amphitryon, husband of Alcmene, 

xxii, 158; Herodotus on, xxxiii, 

26; name used to express a good 

host, V, 215 
Amposte, chatelain of, xxxv, 42, 46, 

60 
Amputations, _Pare on cauterizing 

after, xxxviii, 8, 20, 22 
Amram, father of Mary, xlv, 964 

note 4 
Amsanctus, Lake, xiii, 262-3 
Amsdorff, Nicolaus von, xxxvi, 274 

note 
Amun, Zeus called, xxxiii, 26 (see 

also Ammon) 



Amusements, Pascal on, xlviii, 11 

(11), 56 
Amycla, nurse of Alcibiades, xii, 

no 
Amyclas, the fisherman, xx, 333 

note 16^ 
Amycus, in the -^neid, xiii, 83, 

323, 412 
Amyntas, king of Lycaonia, xii, 383, 

384 

Amythaon, Homer on, xxii, 158 

Anabaptists, Bacon on, iii, 14; of 
Munster, xxiv, 301 

Anachronisms, Dryden on, of Vir- 
gil, xiii, 35-7; in Shakespeare and 
Sidney, xxxix, 228 

Anacreon, Byron on, xii, 834; in 
Dante's Limbo, xx, 238 note 7 

Anaerobian life, xxxviii, 292 note, 
333* 340, 349-52, 355-6, 361-2, 

* 383-5 

Analogical resemblances, xi, 462-7 
Analogous variations, xi, 168-71 
Analogy, Ernerson on, v, 453; Hume 

on reasoning by, xxxvii, 392, 595 

(7), 427-8 
Analysis, Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 

302 (18); Mill on habit of, xxv, 

91; Pascal on, xlviii, 428 
Ananda, servant of Buddha, xlv, 

600, 647-60, 673-6, 716, 729-30, 

^ 791, 795 

Ananias, husband of Sapphira, xliv, 
438 (1-6); Bunyan on, xv, 127; 
"varlet that cozened apostles," 
the, xlvii, 563 

Ananias, the disciple, and Paul, 
xliv, 449 (10-18), 481 (12-16); 
Dante on, xx, 396 note 

Ananias, the high priest, xliv, 482 
(2), 484 (i) 

Ananias, prince of Babylon, xxxvi, 
^ 346 

Ananias, in The Alchemist, xlvii, 
560-3, 567-73* 611-13, 621, 630-1, 
633 

Anarchy, Sophocles on, viii, 264 

Anastasius II, in Dante's Hell, xx, 
46 note 

Anastasius IV, and Bernard, xxxvi, 
356 

Anathemas, Burns on, vi, 234 

Anatolius, St., hymn by, xlv, 554 

Anatomy, Locke on study of, xxxvii, 
147, 157; study of, necessary for 
artists, xxxvii, 309; xxxix, 269 

Anaxagoras, a native of Ionia, 
xxviii, 60; Creator, his idea of 
the, xxxix, 106; Euripides and, 
viii, 286; in Dante's Limbo, xx, 
20; Pericles and, v, 454; xii, 40-2, 
44, 56-7, 71 ; Socrates on doc- 
trines of, ii, 13, 92-3; Themisto- 
cles and, xii, 6; Voltaire on teach- 
ings of, xxxiv, 104 

Anaxarete, Webster on, xlvii, 758 



142 



GENERAL INDEX 



Anaxenor, harper of Antony, xii, 

A 351., 

Anaxilaus, at Byzantium, xii, 142 

Anaximander, on the world, xxxix, 
109-10 

Anaximenes, letter to Pythagoras, 
xxxii, 49; mention of his doc- 
trines, vii, 171; xxxix, 106 

Ancestors, Bentham on veneration 
of, xxvii, 238-41; Huxley on, 
xxviii, 232; Lowell on, xlii, 145 1; 
More on, xxxvi, 150; Tennyson 
on, xlii, 1035; Tseng-tzu on, xliv, 

6 (9) 

Anchemolus, death of, xiii, 339-40 

Anchises, father of ^neas, xiii, 97; 
Crete, advises settlement of, 134- 
5; death in Sicily, 154-5; Dante 
on, XX, 349; Evander and, xiii, 
277-8; funeral games of, 184-202; 
ghost of, advises JEneas, 206; in 
Hades, 234-42; Priam, relationship 
to, 21; Sidney on, xxvii, 20; Troy, 
in sack of, xiii, 125-8 

Ancient Mariner, Rime of the, 
xii, 698-718; Wordsworth on the, 
xxxix, 282^ 

Ancus, Marcius, Virgil on, xiii, 239 

Andersen, Hans_ Christian, life and 
works of, xvii, 234; remarks on 
stories of, 2; Tales of, 237-383 

Andes Mountains, appearance and 
scenery, xxix, 269-70, 274-5, 293, 
337. 341-2, 353; Darwin on his 
passage of, 332-56; geology of, 
338-40, 351-3; mines of, 336-7; 
rain, absence of, in, 343; shingle 
terraces of, 334-5; snow-line of, 
261; stone, crumbling, of, 338; 
torrents of, 335-6; upheaval of, 
335» 339-40; vegetation and zool- 
ogy of, 337, 346-7; winds and 
storms of, 342-3, 381-2 

Andocides, impiety, accused of, xii, 
35; on Themistocles, 35 

Andrea, in The Cenci, xviii, 284, 
285, 321 

Andrea Del Sarto, xlii, 1 130-7 

Andrew, the apostle, xliv, 373 (14), 
f^3o (13); in Paradise Regained, 
iv, 376-7 

Andrew, the boy, in Don Quixote, 
xiv, 40-2, 312-15 

Andrews, Dr., bishop of Winchester, 
XV, 344, 387-8 

Andrews, Isaac, Woolman and, i, 
189-91 

Andrews, Jacob, i, 192 

Andrews, Peter, i, 191-2, 192-4 

Androcles, Alcibiades's accuser, xii, 
127 

Androcles, Fable of, xvii, 19 

Androgeos, death of, xiii, 116 

Andromache, in Greece, xiii, 141-2, 
147; dream of, xl, 43; Ruskin on, 
xxviii, 146 



Andromachus, a Syrian, xxviii, 60 
Andromeda, constellation, iv, 152 
Andronicus, Livius, date of, ix, 64; 

Sidney on, xxvii, 9 
Andros, Themistocles at, xii, 24 
Andvari, the dwarf, xlix, 304-6 
Ane an' Twenty, Tam, vi, 441 
Anemolians, ambassadors of the, 

xxxvi, 203-5 
Aneurin, Celtic bard, xxxii, 174 
Aneurism, defined, xxxviii, 85 
Angel, The, a story, xvii, 362-4 
Angelica, Agrican and, iv, 396-7; 
xiv, 82; Orlando Furioso and, xiv, 
16, 225, 238; xxxii, 52 note 
Angelo, Michael (see Michelangelo) 
Angels, Bagehot on Milton's, xxviii, 
207-8; bowers of the, iv, 324; 
Browne on creation of, iii, 298; 
chorus of, in Faust, xix, 33-5; 
creation of, xx, 315 note 9, 408-9 
notes; Dante on rank among, xx, 
300 note 6; habitation of, iii, 300; 
in Faustus, xix, 202, 212-3,217-8, 
219; in Paradise Lost, iv, 198- 
200 (see also Michael, Raphael, 
etc.); rebellion of the, 200-29 (see 
also Fallen Angels) ; love among, 
262; Milton on nature of, 215-16; 
number of, xx, 411-12; Smart on, 
xii, 499; Tutelary (see Tutelary 
Angels) 
Angels, Footsteps of, xlii, 13 19 
Anger, Augustine, St., on, vii, 30; 
Bacon on, iii, 141-2; Collins on, 
in music, xii, 489; in Dante's 
Hell, xx, 32, 48; Dante's exam- 
ples of, 215; Ecclesiastes on, xliv, 
347 (9) ; Epictetus on, ii, 144 
(75); Hobbes's definition of, 
xxxiv, 353; Krishna on, xiv, 872; 
Manzoni on, xxi, 540; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 202 (10), 205 
(16), 231 (28), 239 (26), 284 
(25), 295; Pascal on, xlviii, 167 
(502);Penn on, i, 363 (270,271); 
Plutarch on, xii, 172; Walton on, 
XV, 332; Webster on, xlvii, 753 
Angle, Guichard d*, xxxv, 47, 48, 52 
Angles, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 118 
Angrivarians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

114 
Anguillotto of Lucca, xxxi, 103-4 
Angular figures, not beautiful, xxiv, 

99; why unpleasant, 104, 127 
Angus, in Macbeth, xlvi, 311, 365 
Angustia, Donna, xxiii, 249-50, 404, 

406 
Aniause, King, xxxv, 173, 182 
Anicius, Titus, ix, 122 
Animal kingdom, how distinguished 

from vegetable, xxxviii, 358-9 
Animalculae, perfection of, v, 93; 

xlviii, 26 
Animals, acclimatisation of, xi, i53- 
4; Bacon's experiments on, iii, 



GENERAL INDEX 



143 



'tS4J beauty in, proportion as 
cause of, xxiv, 81-2; beauty sense 
of, xxxvi, 215-16; Blake on cruel- 
ty to, xli, 601-2; Buddhist ideas 
of, xlv, 722-5; Burke on cries 
of, xxiv, 74; Burke on mating 
of, 38-9; care of, in Massa- 
chusetts, xliii, 84; Carlyle on, xxv, 
453 note; death, no fear of, in, 
xxxiv, 181; Descartes on reason 
in, 47-8; domestic (see Domestic 
Animals); Emerson on, v, 240; 
extinction of large, cause of, 
xxix, 187-9; fertilisation of, xi, 
1 13-14; habits, diversity of, 123-4; 
Hume on reason of, xxxvii, 392-5; 
Locke on cruelty to, 108-9; love 
of offspring among, xl, 436; 
Marcus Aurelius on kindness to, 
ii, 238^ (23), 254 (65); Pascal on 
mind in, xlviii, 119 (340-3); ad- 
miration among, 132 (401); plants 
and, complex relations of, xi, 85- 
8; Rousseau on distinction be- 
tween men and, xxxiv, 178-9; 
size of, disadvantages in, xi, 370; 
size of, in relation to vegetation, 
xxix, 97-101; social instincts of, 
ii, 270 (9); souls of, xxxvi, 241; 
truth, love of, among, v, 388; 
Voltaire on souls in, xxxiv, 108-9; 
Woolman on kindness to, i, 314 
(see also Organic Beings, Species) 

Animism, defined, xvii, i 

Animosities, teach value of friend- 
ship, ix, 16 

Anius, king^ of Delos, xiii, 134 

Anna, St., in Dante's Paradise, xx, 
423 ; Jesus found by, iv, 369 

Anna, the prophetess, xliv, 364 (36-8) 

Anna, sister of Dido, xiii, 156-8; 
-<Eneas sought for by, xiii, 171-2; 
at Dido*s death, xiii, 180-1 

Anna, Thy Charms, vi, 326 

Annabel Lee, xiii, 1290-1 

Annas, the high priest, xliv, 365 
(2), 436 (6); Dante on, xx, 99 
note 7 

Annates, Luther on, xxxvi, 292-4, 
302 

Anne, St. (see Anna) 

Annebault, Claude d*, xxxi,^^^ 335 
note 2, 342; Pare and, xxxviii, 13 

Anneius, M., legate of Cicero, ix, 
140, 143 

Annibale, the surgeon, xxxi, 32 

Annie, For, xiii, 1287-90 

Annotations, Cervantes on, xiv, 8, 
lo-ii; Hugo on, xxxix, 354; 
Johnson on, 259, 261 

Ansars, xlv, 961 note 14, 980 note 

Anseis, in Song of Roland, xlix, 
100, 125, 142, 154 

Anselm, Bacon on, iii, 53; Harrison 
on, XXXV, 26S-6; in Dante's Para- 
dise, XX, 340; life of, 340 note 36 



Anselmo, Lothario and, story of, 

xiv, 323-63, 368-73 
Anselmo, in the goatherd's story, 

xiv, 526-30 
Anson's Voyages, Mill on, xxv, 12 
Answer, The, Scott's, xli, 766 
Ant and Grasshopper, fable of, 

xvii, 25 
Antaeus, Dante on, xx, 132-3 note 6; 
family of, xlix, 287 note; Hercu- 
les and, iv, 413; xiv, 21 
Antaeus, chief of Tur-nus, xiii, 345-6 
Antagoras, of Chios, xii, 104 
Antarctic islands, climate and pro- 
ductions of, xxix, 264-7 
Anteia, wife of Helvidius, ix, 355_^ 
Antenor, founder of Padua, xiii, 

83-4; XX, 165 note 7 
Anteon (see Antaeus) 
Anterigoli, Piermaria d* (see 

Sbietta) 
Anteros, and Eros, xii, 113 note 3; 

xviii, 420 
Anthea, To, xl, 346-7 
Anthemocritus, xii, 69 
Anthony, St. (see Antony, St.) 
Anthony, the goatherd, xiv, 88-90 
Anthores, death of, xiii, 354... 
Anthrax, Pasteur on, xxxviii, 383, 

387-8 
Anthylla, city of, xxxiii, 48 
Antichrist, Browne on, iii, 311; 
legend of birth of, 295; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 310; Pascal on, xlviii, 
290-1, 298, 300 (846); Paul, St., 
on, xxxvi, 288 
Anticleia, mother of Odysseus, xxii, 
154, 156-7; her death of grief, 217 
Anticlus, in the Trojan horse, xxii, 

55 

Antigone, condemned to perish in 
cave, viii, 267; death 01, 268-72, 
281; fate bewailed by people, 264; 
in Dante's Limbo, xx, 239; CEdipus 
with, viii, 240-1; in The Phoeni- 
cians, xxxix, 358; Polynices's 
burial by, viii, 243-6; Ruskin on, 
xxviii, 146 

Antigone, Tragedy of, Sophocles's, 
vin, 243-84 

Antigonus, of Judaea, xii, 362; and 
the Parthians, iv, 397 

Antilochus, son of Nestor, xxii, 37; 
Achilles and, 333; death of, 53; 
in Hades, 164, 331 

Antinous, in the Odyssey, with 
Telemachus, xxii, 19 

Antinous, complains of Penelope, 
xxii, 24-5; counsels suitors to 
heed Telemachus, 291; death of, 
307; Irus, encouraged by, to 
fight with Ulysses, 256, 257; con- 
test with the bow, 297, 299, 300, 
302-3 ; Penelope, his gifts to, 262- 
3; Penelope rebukes, 235; Telem- 
achus invited to feast by, 30; 



144 



GENERAL INDEX 



Telemachus plotted against by, 

64-5, 68, 233-4; Ulysses and, as 

beggars, 248-51 
Antioch, Christian Church at, xliv, 

455 (26-30), 457 (i) .. 
Antiochus of Ascalon, xii, 227 
Antioclius, Athenian admiral, xii, 

147 
Antiochus, king of Commagene, xii, 

360-1 
Antiochus Deus, xlviii, 253 
Antiochus Epiphanes, and the Jews, 

iv, 392 
Antiochus the Great, ^tolians and, 
iii, 134; anecdote of, v, 304; 
prophecy of, xlviii, 253-4; the 
Romans and, xxxvi, 12, 13, T"] 
Antiochus Hierax, xii, 86 note^ 
Antiochus, the pilot, and Alcibiades, 

xii, 117 
Antiope, Homer on, xxii, 158; men- 
tioned, iv, 380 
Antipater, the Edomite, iv, 386 
Antipater, general of Alexander, 
xii, 220; and the Athenian ora- 
tors, 221 
Antipathies, national, Browne on, 
iii. 330 » Pascal on, xlviii, 104; 
Washington on, xliii, 261-2 
Antiphates, in the ^neid, xiii, 321 
Antiphates, the Laestrygonian, xxii, 

139 

Antiphates, son of Melampus, xxii, 
214 

Antiphates, and Themistocles, xii, 21 

Antiphon, Athenian orator, on 
Alcibiades, xii, 112; condemna- 
tion of, 209 

Antiphon of Cephisus, ii, 21 

Antiphus, son or /Egyptus, xxii, 22% 
friend of Ulysses, 240 

Antipodes, Darwin on the, xxix, 
440 

Antiquity, Bentham on, xxvii, 238- 
41; Browne on, iii, 294; Harvey 
on, xxxviii, 66; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
385; Hugo on, xxxix, 380; John- 
son on, 218-19; More on, xxxvi, 
150; Pascal on, xlviii, 108 (301), 
444-51; not the rule of belief, 
95 (260) 

Anti-Reformers, Fallacies of, Syd- 
ney Smith on, xxvii, 237-65 

Antiseptic principle, Pasteur on the, 
xxxviii, 400-1 

Antiseptic Principle, Lister's, 
xxxviii, 271-82 

Antisthenes, on detraction, ii, 119 
(7). 250 (36); on the piper, xii, 
Z7\ Pascal on, xlviii, 15 {.27)% 
with Socrates, ii, 47 

Antonia, daughter of Antony, xii, 
403; xviii, 60-1 

Antoninus, Marcus Aurelius (see 
Aurelius, Marcus) 

Antoninus, T. Aurelius (Pius), ii. 



192; M. Aurelius on, 196 (i6)j 
239 (30) 

Antonio, in Duchess ^ of Malfi, 
xlvii; Ancona, banished from, 
770-1; Bosola with, 722-^^ 740, 
746-7, 773, 810-11; Bosola on, 
764-6; Cardinal, relations with, 728, 
799-800, 806; Delio, scenes with, 
721-2, 724, 726-7, 740, 742-3, 745, 
754-5, 793-4, 795-6, 807-8; Duchess, 
scenes with, 733-7, 74i, 742, 757-9, 
761-2, 763-4, 112, 774-5; Duchess, 
steward of, 724; Ferdinand, rela- 
tions with, 725, 770, 773; orders 
palace closed, 744; son of, born, 
745 

Antonio, in Tempest, xlvi; Ariel de- 
nounces, 421-3; banquet, at the, 
420; Prospero and, 383-5, 434, 
436; Sebastian, plot with, 403-7, 
420 

Antonius, Caius, Roman consul, xii, 
234, 235; Catiline conspiracy, 238, 
244; Mark Antony, relationship 
to, 340; Cicero mentions, ix, 83 

Antonius, Lucius, Cicero on, ix, 179 

Antonius, Marcus, the orator, grand- 
father of Mark Antony, xii, 334; 
Sidney on, xxvii, 51-2 

Antonius, Marcus, the Triumvir 
(see Antony) 

Antonius, Publius, and Caesar, xii, 
276 

Antonius of Florence, xxxvi, 327 

Antony, Caius, brother of Marcus, 
xii, 350 

Antony, Mark, Actium, flight from, 
xii, 387-8; Antiochus, war with, 
360-1 ; appearance and dress of, 
^36; Artavasdes seized by, 375; 
in Asia, 350-2; Bacon on, iii, 28; 
his relations with Octavius, 130; 
burial of, xii, 399; Caesar and 
Pompey, contest of, 337-40, 301-2, 
308, 312; Caesar, favorite of, 342; 
after Caesar's death, 262-3, 344, 
345; character of, 352; children 
of, 403; Cicero, relations with, 
261, 262-3, 264-5, 267-8, 334, 348; 
Cicero on his relations with, ix, 
96, 185, 186, 188; Cleopatra and, 
Dryden on, xviii, 1 1 ; Cleopatra 
and sons honored by, xii, 378; 
Cleopatra, first meeting of, with, 
352-7; Cleopatra prevents, from 
renewing war, 375-7; Cleopatra 
renews relations with, 362-3; Cleo- 
patra, slave of, charged with 
being, 381-2; death of, 395-6; 
Dolabella and, 340, 3^2; East, 
campaigns in, early, 335-6; in 
Egypt after Actium, 390, 391-3; 
Fulvia, marriage to, 341-2; in 
Greece, 350, 359-6o; Ides of 
March, at, 329, 330, 343-4; Italy, 
driven from, 264-5, 346; Li7£ off 



GENERAL INDEX 



145 



Plutarch's, 334-403 ; Lupercalia, at 
the, 325, 343; master of horse, 
340; Octavia, marriage of, to, 
357-8; Octavia neglected by, 376- 
7; Octavius and, meet at Taren- 
tum, 361-2; Octavius, break of, 
with, 345-6; Octavius, charges 
against, made by, 378; Octavius, 
contest with, 383-7; Octavius's 
growing jealousy of, 359; parent- 
age and youth, 334-5; Parthia in- 
vaded by, 363-75 ; Pompey*s house 
bought by, 341 ; popularity and 
liberality of, 336-7; prodigies pre- 
ceding the war, 382-3 (cf. xviii, 
21); Sextus Pompey and, 358-9; 
statues and honors to, abolished, 
268; triumvir, 348-9; Virgil on, 
at Actium, xiii, 295; war of, with 
republicans, xii, 349-50 (cf. xviii, 
35); world divided by, to trium- 
virs, 357 

Antony, in All for Love, xviii, 19; 
in Egypt after Actium, 23, 25, 
26-7; his lamentation, 27-8; scene 
with Ventidius, 28-35; remarks on 
scene with Ventidius, 18; his re- 
ply to Cleopatra's appeal, 37-8; 
on Octavius, prepares to march, 
39-40; receives Cleopatra's gift, 
41-2; meeting with Cleopatra, 43- 
9; with Cleopatra in the palace, 
50-1; advised by Ventidius, 51-2; 
with Dolabella, 53-7; scene with 
Octavia, 57-61; sends farewell to 
Cleopatra by Dolabella, 65-6; hears 
Dolabella's falseness, 73-8; ac- 
cuses Dolabella and Cleopatra, 
79-83; betrayed by Egyptian fleet, 
86-7; plans to fight it out, 88-9; 
hears Cleopatra dead, 90-1; death 
of, 92-6 

Antony, surnamed Creticus, father 
of Marcus, xii, 334 

Antony, the Younger, xii, 403 

Antony, St., Augustine on, vii, 132; 
Burice on pictures of, xxiv, 56; 
conversion of, vii, 142; Newman 
on, xxviii, 38 

Ant(s), aphides and, xi, 265; Bra- 
zilian, xxix, 45; Browne on, iii, 
278 (15); Johnson on, xxxix, 309- 
10; Milton on, iv, 242; Pope on, 
xl, 438; slave-making instinct of, 
xi, 275-9; worker castes of, 61, 
290-5 

Antyllus, son of Antony, xii, 392, 
398, 403 

Anubis, called the dog, iv, 14; bark- 
ing deity, vii, 125 

Anuruddha, xlv, 660-1 

Anuweekin, the Indian, xliii, 152 

Anville, Marshal d*, xxxviii, 26 

Anxiety, Arabian verses on, xvi, 11; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 389, 391-2; 
mean and noble, xxviii, 117; 



physical effects of, xxxviii, 131; 
Pliny on, ix, 342-3 

Anxur, in the ^neid, xiii, 345 

Anyder River, in Utopia, xxxvi, 185 

Anysis, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 70* 
71-2 

Anything, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 104 

Anytus, Alcibiades and, xii, 113-14; 
first briber in Athens, 165; Socra- 
tes's accuser, ii, 4, 10, 16, 17, 
21, 134 (52) 

Aorta, Harvey on the, xxxviii, 91, 
94, 96, 108, 146 

Apathy, in Dante's Hell, xx, 13-iS; 
Pope on, xl, 428 

Ape(s), intellectual powers of, xi, 

234-5 
Apelles, Alexander and, ix, 107; 
method of, iii,ii2; the **Venus" 
of, ix, 130; xiii, 12 
Apemantus, Timon and, xii, 391 
Aphides, and ants, xi, 265; develop- 
ment of, 482 
Aphrodite, Ares and, xxii, 111-13 
Aphrodite, in Hippolytus, viii, 287- 
9; Cyrene's image of, xxxiii, 91; 
home of, viii, 364; queen of rap- 
ture, 123; "she whom none sub- 
dues," 268; (see also Venus) 
Apires, Chilian miners, xxix, 361 
Apis, court of, at Memphis, xxxiii, 

79 
Aplysia, Darwin on the, xxix, 16-17 
Apocalyptics, Pascal on the, xlviii, 

221 (650, 651) 
Apodictic, Principles, xxxii, 345 
Apollinarian Heresy, vii, 120 
Apollinarii, Milton on the, iii, 209 
Apollinaris, Domitius, letter to, ix, 

278 
Apollo, Cassandra and, viii, 43-4» 
49; Daphne and, xl, 386; Delphi, 
(Phoebus), fourth prophet of , viii, 
115-16; Egypt, king 01, xxxiii, 74; 
god of music, iv, 22, 59; viii, 
426; Hyacinth and, iv, 19; in 
Egyptian mythology, xxxiii, 80-1; 
Latona's son, iv, 82; Loxias, 
called, viii, 94, 113, 116; Lyceian 
king, 203; Marsyas and, xx, 287; 
Phlegyas and, 33 note i ; Phoebus, 
called, viii, 115; Thymbraean god, 
XX, 193 note; Virgil on, xiii, 161; 
Zoilus and, xxviii, 395; (see also 
Delphian C)racle) 
Apollo, in The Furies, viii, pro- 
tector of Orestes, 11 7- 18, 121-4; 
witness for Orestes, 136-7, 139- 
41 ; altercation with the Furies, 

143-4 
Apollo Belvedere, Cellini on the, 

xxxi, Z2>^ note; not impossible in 

life, V, 202 
Apollodorus, Socrates's friend, ii, 

21, 25, 46-7, 114 



146 



GENERAL INDEX 



Apollodorus, the orator, and De- 
mosthenes, xii, 209 

Apollodorus, Greek writer, on Chry- 
sippus, xxxii, 31 

Apollodorus, the Sicilian, with Cleo- 
patra, xii, 315-16 

Apollonius, Molon, and Cicero, xii, 
228; Caesar and, 275 

Apollonius, the Stoic, M. Aurelius 
on, ii, 194 (8), 199; on self-disci- 
pline, 154 (100) 

Apollonius, of Tyana, Bacon on, iii, 

Apollos, the Alexandrian, xliv, 472 
(24-8) ; St. Paul on, xlv, 504 (5- 
6), 505 (6), 526 (12) 
Apollyon, and Christian, xv, 60-5 
Apologies, Bacon on, iii, 67; Emer- 
son on, V, ^2% new actions the 
only, 198-9; Pascal on, xlviii, 21 

(57) 
Apology of Socrates, Plato's, ii, 

3-29 

Apology, The, Emerson's poem, 
xlii, 1293-4 

Apostasy, Bunyan on, xv, 156-8 

Apostles, Calvin on, xxxix, 47, 48; 
choosing of the, xliv, 373 (13-16); 
ccrmmunity of goods among, 438; 
ccruncil of, on circumcision, 463- 
4, xlviii, 22y {672) ; deacons ap- 
pointed by the, xliv, 441 (1-6); 
Holy Spirit received, 431; impris- 
oned and miraculously freed, 439 
(17-20), renew teachings, 439 (21- 
42); in Jerusalem, 446 (i, 14); 
with Paul, 450 {27) ; Jesus's ap- 
pearances to, after death, 425 (36- 
53)» 429 (3-11), xlv, 522 (5, 7); 
Jesus with, 379 (i, 9), 380 (22-5), 
383 (10), 383 (18). 385 (43-6), 389 
(i), 392 (i), 395 (4i)» 405 (5- 
10), 4o8 (31), 417 (14-40, 45-6); 
Judas s place supplied, 430-1 ; 
Kempis on the, vii, 297 (4), 306 
(6); Lessing on the, xxxii, 209; 
Luther on the, xxxvi, 304, 361; 
Luther on council, 286; Milton on 
the, iv, 356-7, 358; miracles done 
by, xliv, 433 (43)» 439 (12-16); 
Mohammed on the, xlv, 966, 980, 
1020-1 ; Pascal on the, xlviii, 274 
(770), 282-3, 294 (838); Paul, St., 
on the, xlv, 506 (9-13); power 
and authority given to, xliv, 382 
(i); sent forth to preach, 382 
(.2-6) 

Apostles, Acts of the, xliv, 427-95 

Apostles' Creed, xxxix, 51 

Apothecaries, Chaucer on, doctors 
and, xl, 23; profits of, x, 118 

Apparel, Penn on, i, 346; Woolman 
on, 262-4 

Apparitions, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 328-9 

Apparitor, Chaucer's, xl, 28-9 note 
314 



Appeal, right of, in Massachusetts, 

xliii, 76 (36) 
Appearances, Emerson on regard 
for, V, 71; fable of deceptiveness 
of, xvii, 26\ Goethe on, xix, 394; 
Machiavelli on care of, xxxvi, 61; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 236 (13); 
Pascal on, xlviii, 112 (319); Paul, 
St., on, xxxvi, 289-90; Schiller on 
aesthetic, xxxii, 301-6 
Appetite, Locke on tempting the, 

xxxvi i, 32 
Appius Claudius (see Claudius) 
Appius, Marcus, Caesar and, xii, 
293; Cicero and, 248; ix, 124, 132, 
147-8, 152; provincial governor, 
136, 147-8; propylasum of, 157 
Applauders, professional, in Rome, 

ix, 230 
Applause (see Praise) 
Apple-growing, in Chiloe, xxix, 316 
Apples, Locke on eating of, xxxvii, 

22 
Appointments, Confucius on, xliv, 
42-3; Koran on, xxv, 254; Presi- 
dential, xliii, 201 (2, 3) 
Appomattox, terms of surrender at, 

xliii, 447-8 
Apprehensions, Pliny on, ix, 343 
Apprenticeships, limitation of, x, 
127; long, 127-31; Smith on, 108; 
unknown to ancients, 130 
Appropriations, in Massachusetts, 
xliii, 82 (78); (U. S.) under the 
Confederation, 175; under Con- 
stitution, 197 (12), 198 (7) 
Apries, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 83-6 
April, Chaucer on, xl, 11; Shake- 
speare on, 284 
Apteryx, wings of the, xi, 186 
Apuleius, Golden Ass of, xxxix, 

368; xlii, 1434 
Aquila of Pontus, xliv, 470 (2-4), 

471 (18-19), 472 {26) 
Aquila, P. Attius, ix, 431 
Aquleia, Freeman on, xxviii, 265 
Aquilius, Cicero on, ix, 83 
Aquilo, charioteer of Winter, iv, 18 
Aquinas, Thomas, St., angels, ref- 
erence to, XX, 4.09 note; death of, 
229 note 11; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 
292; Dante places in Paradise, xx, 
329; life of, sketch of, 329 note 
16; pupil of Albertus Magnus, 329 
note 15 
Aquinius, Marcus, Cicero on, xii, 

248 
Arabella, Lady (see Stuart, Ara- 
bella) 
Arabesques, Cellini on, xxxi, 62-^ 
Arabian heresy, iii, 270 (7) 
Arabian Nights* Entertainments, 

xvi 
Arabs, adopted children among, xlv, 
999 note 2, 1003 note; beacon- 
fires of, 1015 note; chase, ideas 



GENERAL INDEX 



147 



of, V, 363; divorce among, xlv, 
999 note; Emerson on conquests 
of the, V, 58; hospitality among, 
xlv, 1004 note 28; religion of, 
886; Schiller on civilization of, 
xxxii, 251; sheiks, habits of, v, 
143-4; swords as mirrors among, 
XX, 344 note 22 
Arachne, Dante on, xx, 194; refer- 
ence to loom of, ^2 
Aratus, Pliny on, ix, 284 
Araviscans, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

III 
Arbela, battle of, iii, 78 
Arbitrary Government, Winthrop 

on, xliii, 90-1 12 
Arbitration, Hobbes on legal, xxxiv, 
427; Pascal on international, 
xlviii, 106 (296); U. S. and 
Mexico, agreement between, for, 
xliii, 323-4 
Arc, Joan of (see Joan of Arc) 
Arcades, Mii^ton's, iv, 43-46, 
Arcadia, Johnson on first inhabit- 
ants of, xxxix, 209; Spartan in- 
vasion of, xii, 154 note; the 
"thesmophoria'* in, xxxiii, 86-7 
Arcalaus, the enchanter, xiv, 123 
Areas, Callisto*s son, xx, 417 note 5 
Arceisius, father of Laertes, xxii, 

22J 

Arcens, son of, xiii, 317 
Arcesilaus, method of teaching, 
xxxii, 36; Pascal on, xlviii, 126 

^375) , ... „ 

Archander, Herodotus on, xxxin, 48 
Archangels, in Faust, xix, 16-17 ,,, 
Archedemus, Aristophanes on, viii, 

431, 436 
Archelaus, Antony and, xn, 336; the 

tower of, XXXV, 336 
Archenomus, Aristophanes on, viii, 

465-6 
Archeopteryx, xi, 356-7 
Archiac, M. d', on changes in spe- 
cies, xi, 374-5., , 
Archias, the exile-hunter, xii, 221-2 
Archibius, Cleopatra's friend, xii, 

402 
Archidamus, king of Sparta, xii, 68, 

71-2 
Archidiche, Herodotus on, xxxiii, 69 
Archilochus, banished from Sparta, 

iii, 204 
Archimedes, Huxley on, xxviii, 22^', 

Manzoni on, xxi, 119; Marcus 

Aurelius on, ii, 244 (47) ; Pascal 

on, xlviii, 280 
Archipelagoes, Darwin on, xi, z^^ 
Archippe, wife of Themistocles, xii, 

34 
Archippus, Flavius, ix, 408-11, 420-1 

Architecture, Burke on colors in, 
xxiv, ^2% Coleridge on, xxvii, 276; 
effects, its means of producing, 
xxiv, 136; figures in, various, xxiv. 



(i(>-T\ Greenough's theory of, v, 
329; Hobbes on, xxxiv, ZTJ\ Hugo 
on mediaeval, xxxix, 368; human 
body as model in, xxiv, 85; light 
and shade in, 71; magnitude in, 
67; Vitruvius on study of, v, 182; 
xxxi, 8 

Architeles, Themistocles and, xii, 
11-12 

Archytas of Tarentum, on isolation, 
ix, 38; on sensual pleasure, 60 

Arcite and Palamon, story of, xxxix, 
167, 169, 180 

Areius and Octavius, xii, 398, 399 

Areopagitica, Milton's, iii, 193-244 

Areopagus, Council of, ^schylus on 
ordaining of, viii, 142; Burke on, 
xxiv, 355; its composition, xii, 46; 
its powers reduced, 43, 46 

Ares, ^schylus on, viii, 20-1; Aph- 
rodite and, xxii, 111-13; Phineus's 
sons and, viii, 273; worshipped in 
Egypt, xxxiii, zz, 34*5. 42; (see 
also Mars) 

Arete, wife of Alcinous, xxii, 95-6; 
Ulysses with, 97-8, 1 15-16, 160; 
Ulysses's farewell to, 182 

Aretheus, Eudamidas and, 83-4 

Arethusa, Alpheus and, Milton on, 
iv, 44; Dante on story of, xx, 
106; Jupiter and, xix, 239; Virgil 
on, xiii, 154 

Arethusa, in Philaster, xlvii, Bel- 
lario sent to, 655-7, 661; Bellario, 
scenes with, 662-3; 682-3, 691, 
718; hunt, at, 683, 684; king, 
scenes with, 678-9, 704-5; lost in 
wood, 688-90; Megra denounces, 
668-9, 713; Pharamond and, 639- 
40, 641-3, 653-5, 661-2, 663-4, 694- 
5; Philaster, letter to, 674; Phi- 
laster, scenes with, 649-53, 680-2, 
691-3. 699, 700-2, 703 

Arethusa, Browne on river, iii, 269 

Aretino, Pietro, Milton on, iii, 214 
note 43; pictures of, reference to, 
xlvii, 545 ; portrait by Titian, 286 

Argand, Aime, inventor of hollow 
wick, XXX, 108, 163 

Argas, friend of Orgon, xxvi, 266 

Argas, the poet, xii, 200 

Argent, Dr., Harvey to, xxxvlii, 65 

Argenti, Filippo, in Dante's Hell, 

Argia, in Limbo, xx, 239 

Arginusse, battle of, ii, 19 

Argo, Homer on ship, xxii, 171; 

Milton on ship, iv, 136; Stukeley 

on, V, 477 
Argonauts, date of expedition of, 

xxxiv, 132-3 
Argos, eyes of, references to, iv, 

326; xlvii, 543 
Argos, Hermes, slayer of, viii, 176 

note 37; xxii, 10 
Argos, lo and, viii, 176, 179 



148 



GENERAL INDEX 



Argos, dog of Ulysses, xxii, 246 _ 
Argument, Franklin on habit of, i, 

15-16, 132; Penn on, 352^(133-6); 

Socrates on, ii, 83-4; varieties of, 

xxxvii, 351 note 
Argus, Evander and, xiii, 283; (see 

also Argos) 
Argustus, Eiiazar and, xxxv, 162 
Ariadne, sister of Minotaur, xx, 50 

note 5; placed among stars, 341; 

Homer on, xxii, 160; Theseus and, 

xxvi, 128, 135 
Ariamenes, Xerxes*s admiral, xii, 

19 
Arians, Bacon on the, 111, 145; 
Browne on the, 271 (8); Pascal 
on the, xlviii, 299, 306; Voltaire 
on, xxxiv, 84-5 
Aricia, mother of Virbius, xiii, 269 
Aricia, in PHiEDRA, Hippolytus and, 
xxvi, 127-9, 139-47, 174. 175-6, 
182-3; Theseus and, 177-8, 185 
Ariel, in Faust, xix, 177, 183 
Ariel, in Paradise Lost, iv, 216 
Ariel, in The Tempest, xlvi, at 
banquet, 421-2; Caliban and, 416- 
19; Ferdinand and, 393*4, 397; 
Gonzalo and, 402, 406; Prospero 
and, 387-9i» 424-5, 429, 43°, 43i- 
2, 432-3, 435, 439, 440, 442; Hugo 
on, xxxix, 372; Hunt on Shakes- 
peare's, xxvii, 309; Shelley on 
Miranda and, xli, 871 
Aries, Dante on sign of, xx, 181; 

sun started in, 6 note 5 
Arimanes, in Manfred, xviii, 426^ 
Arimaspians, yEschylus on the, viii, 
184 and note 55; and gryfons, iv, 

134 

Arimnestus, at Plataea, xii, 92, 100 

Ariobarzanes, Cicero and, ix, 141-2, 
148-9; Plutarch on, xii, 256 

Arioch, in Paradise Lost, iv, 216 

Ariosto, Lodovic, Cervantes on, xiv, 
53; Dryden on, xiii, 5, 13, 27, 57; 
Hugo on, xxxix, 369; Hume on, 
xxvii, 219; Montaigne on, xxxii, 
93; Renan on, 168; Sainte-Beuve 
on, 137; Spenser on, xxxix, 65; 
Titian's portrait of, xxvii, 286; 
Wordsworth on, xxxix, 333 

Ariovistus, xii, 290-1 

Ariphron, guardian of Alcibiades, 
Xli, no, 112 

Aristarchus, friend of Paul, xliv, 
474 (29), 475 (4), 490 (2) 

Aristarchus of Samos, referred to, 
xlvi, 75 

Aristides, archon, xn, 85-6; assess- 
ment made by, 105; Athenian de- 
mocracy proposed by, 103; ban- 
ishment of, 87-8; birth and con- 
dition of, 80-1, 106-7, 108; chil- 
dren of, 108-9; commissioner, as, 
104; constancy and justice, 83-4, 
86; death of, 107-8; Eleutheria 



proposed by, 102; levy of Greeks 
proposed by, 102; Life of, Plu- 
tarch's, 80-109; Marathon, at, 84- 
5; Persian wars, in, 17, 20, 88- 
loi; public conduct guided by 
expediency, 106; resentment, free- 
dom from, 195-6; Themistocles 
and, 7, 15, 17, 20, 23, 81-3, 84, 
87, 88-90, 103, 105-6, 107 
Aristippus, Horace on, xxxii, 60; 
not with Socrates in ^ prison, ii, 
47; on children, xxxii, 76; quo- 
tation from, 64 
Aristo, Titus, letters to, ix, 274, 335; 

Pliny on, 219-21 
Aristobulus and Antony, xii, 335 
Aristocracy, Channing on, xxviii, 
357; Mill on government by, xxv, 
112; natural and actual, 222; of 
Europe, v, 223; origin of, xxxv, 
226 
Aristocrates, Antony and, xii, 390 
Aristodicus, the Tanagrsean, xii, 48 
Aristogiton, grand-daughter of, xii, 

109; Hermodius and, xxxii, 79 
Ariston, Claudius, ix, 309 
Ariston, of Ceos, xii, 82 note i 
Ariston, Greek tragedian, xxxii, 72 
Aristonicus, death of, xii, 221 
Aristophanes, Dryden on, xxxix, 
182; Euripides and, viii, 286; 
The Frogs, 419-66; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 365; life and works, viii, 
418; Milton on, iii, 204, 216; 
Samians on the, xii, 65; Socrates 
on, ii, 5; Taine on comedies of, 
xxxix, 460 
Aristophanes, the grammarian, on 

Epicurus, xxxii, 66 
Aristophon, the painter, xii, 124 
Aristotle, air and rain, on, xxxviii, 
107;^ Alexander's tutor, iv, 405, 
xxxii, 55; animals, motion of, 
xxxviii, 142-3; Antipater on per- 
suasiveness of, xii, 194; Art of 
Poesy, xxvii, 42; Augustine on 
Predicaments of, vii, 62; Bacon 
on ostentation of, iii, 134; Browne 
on, 275 (12), 278, 300, 320, 336-7; 
Cicero on, xii, 245; comedy on, 
xxvii, 49; comets on, xxxiv, 120; 
Dante's Limbo in, xx, 20 note 8; 
death, on, xxxviii, 89; democracy, 
on, xxiv, 273 and note; Don Fer- 
rante on, xxi, 465; drama, on 
the, xiii, 6-7; xxxix, 231; Emer- 
son on, V, 159; Euripus, flux of, 
xxxviii, 79; friendship, on, xxxii. 
75, 82, 83; heart and blood, on 
the, xxxviii, 85, 88, 98, 130, 135, 
138, 139, 141, 145; human under- 
standing, on, xxxiv, 104; Hume 
on, xxxvii, 307; imitation, on, 
xxiv, 45 ; inequality, on, xxxiv, 
425; Lowell on, xxviii, 465 ; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 338-9; Mill on, xxv. 



GENERAL INDEX 



14& 



2137; medicine, on study of, xix, 
201 notes 12 and 13; Milton on 
Lyceum of, iii, 256; iv, 405; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 29; natural selec- 
tion, his idea of, xi, 9 note; New- 
man on Lyceum of, xxviii, 59; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 116; Plato's pu- 
pil, ii, i; poetry, on, xiii, 36-7; 
xxvii, 54; xxviii, 80; xxxix, 294, 
408; poetry and history, on, xxvii, 
21-2; xxviii, 74; Raleigh on his 
doctrine of eternity, xxxix, 104, 
105, 106, ^ 109-10; Rhetoric 01, 
XXV, 13; ridicule, on, xxxix, 188; 
soul, on the, 106; space, on, v, 
182; state, on members of, xx, 
320 note 14; summum bonum of, 
iii, 346 (is); Taine on, xxxix, 
455 note; teacher, profits as, x, 
142-3; taste, on, xxviii, 388; 
things to be avoided, on, xx, 48 
note; tragedy, on, iv, 416; xiii, 8; 
viper, on the, xxxv, 363 

Arithmetic, Descartes on, xxxiv, 19; 
Hobbcs on, xxxiv, 377; Hume on, 
xxxvii, 324; Locke on study of, 
164, 165 

Arius, Dante on,_xx, 344 note 21; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 293 (832) 

Ariuna, Prince (see Bhagavad-Gita) 

Ark, Browne on story of the, iii, 
287; on pigeon sent from, 286; 
Milton on the, iv, 341 

Arkansas River, sediment of, xxxviii, 

424 
Arkwright, the spinning-jenny and, 

V, 410, 411 
Armada, The, by Macaulay, xli, 

940-3 
Armadillo, Darwin on the,^ xxix, 

108; Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 366 
Armado, fish, xxix, 149 ^ 
Armagnac, Earl of, xxxix, 100 
Armenians, Freeman on the, xxviii, 

281 
Armgart, in Wilhelm Tell, xxvi, 

^ 453, 454-9 , . , . 
Armies, Machiavelli on, xxxyi, 42- 
50; mediaeval Italy, of, xxvii, 392- 
3; 1 6th century, xxxviii, 8; stand- 
ing (see Standing Armies)^^ 
Arminians, Bacon on the, iii, 145 
Arminius, Milton on, iii, 214 
Armour, Adam, Prayer of, vi, 127-8 
Armour, Jean, farewell to, vi, 235; 
lines on, 62, 73-4, 98, 323-4, 334- 
5; references to, 150 note, 182; 
Robert Burns and, 15, 16 
Arms, Don Quixote on profession 
of, xiv, 393-4, 396-8; Machiavelli 
on practice and study of, xxxvi, 
^2, 50-2; Milton on lack of train- 
ing in, iv, 351; More on practice 
of, xxxvi, 153-4; profession of, 
necessary to empire, iii, 81-2; 
right of, in U. S., xliii, 207 (2) 



Armstead, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

414 
Armstrong, Dr., on puerperal fever, 

xxxviii, 240-1 
Armstrong, Johnie, xl, 102-4 
Army, U. S., under the Confedera- 
tion, xliii, 171, 174, 175-6; under 
Constitution, 197 (12, 14); Presi- 
dent commander-in-chief of U. S., 
201 (i) 
Army of the Potomac, Haskfell on, 

xliii, 348-9, 428 
Arnaces, the eunuch, xii, 20, 90 
Arnaeus, the beggar, xxii, 255 
Arnauld, M., references to, xlviii, 

352 note 3, 392 
Arnold, Sir Edwin, translator of 

Bhagavad-Gita, xlv, 799 
Arnold, Matthew, on^ culture, xxviii, 
222; life and writings, 64; Poems 
by, xiii, 1168-86; Study of JPoetry, 
xxviii, 65-91 
Arnold, Sir Nicholas, xxxv, 346 
Arnold, Thomas, Matthew Arnold 

on, xlii,^ 1 176-81 
Arnold, Bishop of Liege, xxxv, 104-5 
Arnold's Battery, at Gettysburg, 

xliii, 359, ps, 405 
Aromaia, Raleigh on, xxxiii, 344-5, 

365 
Aroras, Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 

364 
Arouet, Frangois-Marie (see Vol- 
taire) 
Arowacai, town of, xxxiii, 361 
Arragon, Cardinal of, in Duchess 
OF Malfi, xlvii, 721-816; Antonio, 
relations with, 726, 728, 795; 
Bosola, scenes with, 722, 799-800, 
805-6, 812-15; Duchess and, 730- 
2; Ferdinand and, 728, 751-4, 769- 
70, 797» 798-9; Juha and, 748-50, 
802-5; keeps watch alone, 809-10; 
Loretto, at, 770; Malatesti and, 
767-8 
Arrangement, Pascal on, xlviii, 14 

(22-3)^ 
Arrests, in U. S., xliii, 207 (4) 
Arria, wife of Paetus, ix, 253-5; 
Certus, in case of, 355, 358; exile 
of, 250; Pliny and, 355 
Arrian, Epictetus and, ii, 116 
Arrianus, Maturus, letters to, ix, 

195, 263, 291, 347 
Arrigo, Cardinal, xx, 338 note 20 
Arrigo, Florentine nobleman, xx, 27 

note 12 
Arrius, Quintus, xii, 237; Cicero on, 

ix, 91, 96 
Arrogance, Dante places, in Hell, 
XX, 34; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 378^ 
426; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 28f 

(13, 19) 
Arrows, Raleigh on poisoned, xxxiii, 

364-5 
' Arruntius, at Actium, xii, 387 note 



150 



GENERAL INDEX 



Arsaces, Parthian empire, founder, 
^ iv, 395 

Arsago, Pagolo, xxxi, 28 
Art, ancient and modern, contrast- 
ed, xxviii, 198; Aurelius on na- 
ture and, ii, 291 (10); Browne 
on, and nature, iii, 280; Brown- 
ing on, xlii, 1114; Burke on, xxiv, 
49, 67-9, 91-3; Coleridge on, xxvii, 
269-77; Confucius on nature and, 
xliv, 20 (16), 39 (8); Emerson 
on, V, 186, 311; Goethe on, xxv, 
399; xxxix, 264-80; Goldsmith on 
blessings of, xli, 534-5; Green- 
ough's ideas of, v, 328; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 362-4, 366-7, 369.70, 373, 
374. 3^3> 385-7; human and di- 
vine, ii, 138 (61); Hume on, 
xxvii, 220; xxxvii, 309; "is long" 
(original saying), xxxviii, 2; Mor- 
ley on principles of, xxiv, 28; 
Pascal on, and nature, xlviii, 49 
(120); Penn on, i, 360; public at- 
titude toward, xxviii, 123; purism 
in, satirized, xix, 179; Ruskin on, 
xxviii, 157; Schiller on, xxxii, 
221, 224, ^ 244-52, 268-70, 282-4, 
284-91; Sidney on nature and, 
xxvii, 12; Taine on, xxxix, 453-4, 
455-6, 458-9; unity the vital requi- 
site of, xxviii, 383; utility and, 
xxxii, 223; "weaker than neces- 
sity,** viii, 174; Whitman on real- 
ity in, xxxix, 424 (see also 
Beauty, Taste) 
Art Thou Weary, xlv, 556-7 
Artabanus, Themistocles and, xii, 

29-30 
Artavasdes, king of Armenia, xii, 

^ 363, 364. 375 
Artemidora, The Death of, xli, 

926-7 
Artemidorus, Caesar and, xii, 328; 

Pliny on, ix, 249-51 
Artemis, Actaeon and, viii, 361-2; 
Atridae and, 10; Egyptian mythol- 
ogy, in, xxxiii, 81; Bubastis, fes- 
tival of, 33-4; oracle of, 42; 
temple of, 70-1; Homer on, xxii, 
88; reference to, viii, 203; Thebes, 
goddess of, 202, 203 (see also 
Diana) 
Artemisia, Burns on, vi, 63 
Artemisium, battle of, xii, 12-13 
Artemon, the engineer, xii, 65-6 
Arteries, Harvey on the, xxxviii, 
68-73, 77> 84-6, 92, 94, 108, 116, 
120, 122, 145, 147 
Arthmius of Zelea, xii, 10 
Arthur, King, Caxton on, xxxix, 
21-5; Cervantes on, xiv, 100, 515; 
drinking-cup and arms of, xxxii, 
152; Eliwlod and, 176-7; Guene- 
vere and, xlii, 1233; Mordred and, 
XX, 135 note 3; Renan on, xxxii, 
155-6, 162-4; Spenser on, xxxix, 



65-6; university at Caerleon, xxxv, 
391; Uther's son, iv, 105 

Arthur, King, in Holy Grail, xxxv, 
109-10; his custom of adventure, 
112; and the marvelous sword, 
1 12-13; welcomes Galahad, 113- 
14, 115; and the Sangreal, 116; 
his tourney at Camelot, 11 6-1 7; 
at Holy Grail feast, 118; grief at 
departure of knights, 1 18-19, 120, 
121; orders chronicles of the 
Grail, 226 

Arthur, Morte d', by Tennyson, 
xlii, 1019-26 

Arthur, Prince, son of Henry VII, 
xxxix, 28 

Arthur's hunting, xxxii, 160 note 9 

Arthurian legends, Caxton on, xxxix, 
22-5; Renan on, xxxii, 153, 155- 
73 (see also Holy Grail) 

Artichoke, compared with cardoon, 
xxix, 131 note 9; Jerusalem, xi, 

154 
Article, Dryden on the, xiii, 63 
Articles of Confederation, xliii, 

168-79; Lincoln on, 337 
Articulate speech, man and nature, 
the distinction between, xxvii, 270 
Artificers, in agricultural system, x, 
450-6, 459-63; in policy of Europe, 
107-8 
Artificial, Carlyle on the, xxv, 344 
Artisans, anciently inferior to war- 
riors, xxxiii, 85; Socrates on, ii, 8-9 
Artist, Epigram to an, vi, 276-7 
Artist, Northern, in Faust, xix, 179 
Artists, Browning on, xlii, 1139; 
Emerson on duty of, v, 53-4; 
Goethe on training and duty of, 
265, 268-70; xxxix, 274-5, 277, 
278-9; relations to public, 272-3 
Arts, Burke on the, xxiv, 41, 45', 
49; Dante on, xx, 49; Emerson on 
the, V, 84, 314; Raleigh on the, 
xl, 209; progress in, due to wants, 
xxxiv, 181; relations of various, 
xxxix, 274 (see also Architec- 
ture, Music, Painting, Poetry, 
Sculpture) 
Arulenus, Rusticus (see Rusticus) 
Arundel, Earl of, in Crecy cam- 
paign, xxxv, 8, 23, 26 
Arundel, Thomas of, xxxv, 267 
Arundel, in Edward II, xlvi, 40-2, 

46, 55^ . 
Aruns, Camilla^ and, xiii, ^ 388-90; 

doomed by Diana, 391; his death, 

391; in Dante's Hell, xx, 84 
Aruspicy, defined, xxxiv, 397 
Arwacas, Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 352, 

388 
Aryan Races, Freeman on the, xxviii, 

249-51; Taine on the, xxxix, 444, 

445, 446, 448 
Aryans, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 120 
Arybas, the daughter of, xxii, 219-21 



GENERAL INDEX 



151 



Asaf, son of Barkhiya, xvi, 29 note, 

3i> 322 

Asaph, Psalms attributed to, xliv, 
146, 207, 236-53 ^ ^ „. . 

Ascanio, servant 01 Cellini, xxxi, 
193-6, i97> 201, 206, 222-Zi 269, 
273, 276, 289, 290, 291, 317, 341, 
350, 363, 366 

Ascanius (liilus), m sack of Troy, 
xiii, 126, 128; Dido's hunt at, 
161, 162; Anchises's funeral 
games, 200-1; in fire of the ships, 
204; kills stag of Silvia, 260; his 
fight with Tyrrheus, 261-2; Nisus 
and Euryalus, with, 305-6; in de- 
fence of the town, 317-19, 331; 
prophecy of his future reign, 84, 

Ascension Island, Darwin on, xxix, 

517-21; rock incrustations at, 19; 

species of, xi, 432 
Ascension Day, Walton on, xv, 

408 
Ascetic goodness, Bagehot on, xxviii, 

177-9; disagreeable to women, 189 
Asceticism, Diogenes on, ii, 180 

(187); Epictetus on, 155 (loi); 

pride in,^ 177 (176); Utopian idea 

of, xxxvi, 216 
Ascham, Johnson on, xxxix, 236 
Asciburgium, founded by Ulysses, 

xxxiii, 96 
Asclapo, Roman physician, ix, 160 
Asclepius (see -^Esculapius) 
Ascolano, Aurelio, xxxi, 61 
Ascoli, Eurialo d', xxxi, 61 note 
Ascot, Duke of, xxxviii, 54, 56, 58, 

60 
Asdente, Dante on, xx, 86 
Ashburton, Alexander Lord, xliii, 

300 
Ashley, Lord, and Locke, xxxvii, 3 
Ashtaroth (see Astarte) 
Asia, cause of barbarism of, x, 28; 

wealth of ancient, ix, 399 note i 
Asinius, friend of Pliny, ix, 268 
Asinius, Pollio (see Pollio) 
Ask Me No More, xl, 361 
Askew, in Shoemaker's Holiday, 

xlvii, 449, 450, 452, 453, 470 
Asmach, Herodotus on the, xxxiii, 

18-19 
Asmadai, Asmodai, or Asmodeus, 

reference to story of, iv, 161; in 

the battle, 216; lustfulness of, 379 
Aspasia, of Miletus, accused of 

impiety, xii, 70, 71; and the 

Megarians, 69; Plutarch on, 

xii, 62-3 
Aspasia, concubine of Cyrus, xii, 6;^ 
AsPATiA*s Song, xl, 330 
Asphalax, blindness of the, xxix, 62 
Asphalion, squire of Menelaus, xxii, 

53-4 , 
Aspirations, worldliness and, xlx, 

30-1; inborn in man, 45 



Ass, descent of the, as traced by 
stripes, xi, 17 1-4; why not im- 
proved, 55 
Ass, Job's description of the wild, 

xxiv, 58-9 
Ass AND Bull, story of, xvi, 12-13 
Ass AND Horse, fable of, xvii, 44 
Ass AND Lapdog, fable of, xvii, 13 
Ass IN Lion's Skin, fable of, xvii, 

30 
Ass's Brains, fable of the, xvii, 42 
Assaracus, in Hades, xiii, 233 
Assattha, tree of, xlv, 601 
Assent, Dante on haste in giving, 

XX, 344; Harvey on, xxxviii, loi; 

Penn on, to please, i, 353 (149) 
Assertorial principles, xxxii, 345 
Assignats, Burke on the, xxiv, 269- 

71, 338-44, 383-90 
Assimilation, Freeman on, xxviii, 

257 

Assistance, asking, is honoring, 
xxxiv, 378; Confucius on, xliv, 
54 (15); only to be given by su- 
periors, xviii, 6; willingness to 
accept, ii, 246 (7) 

Associates (see Company) 

Association, Burke on effects of, 
xxiv, 109-10; Emerson on princi- 
ple of, V, 270-1; Locke on, as 
means of education, xxxvii, 38 
(49), 42 (58); Mill on education 
by, XXV, 90-1 

Association of ideas, Hume on, 
xxxvii, 322-3, 345-50 

Assurance in children, xxxvii, 55, 

Assyria, Milton on ancient, iv, 395; 
Raleigh on history of, xxxix, 
117-18 

Astarte, Ashtaroth, or Astoreth, 
Milton on, iv, 13-14, loi; cres- 
cent of, xiii, 1282 

Astarte, in Manfred, xviii, 428-30; 
Manfred on, 420-1 ; further refer- 
ences to, 4x5, 423, 438 

Astolfo, in Life a Dream, ^ with 
Estrella, xxvi, 18-19; his claim to 
throne, 19-20; agrees to king's 
plan to try Segismund, 25-6; 
Segismund with, ^ 38-9, 40-1; 
Rosaura and, 61; in the battle, 
64-5; reunited with Rosaura, 67 

Astonishment, Burke on, xxiv, 51, 
52, 135 

Astoreth (see Astarte) 

Astrasa, footsteps of, xxv, 360 

Astrologers, in Dante's Hell, xx, 
86 

Astrology, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
108-10; Don Quixote on, xiv, 93; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 377\ interest 
in, reason of, v, 307; unknown 
in Utopia, xxxvi, 207 

Astronomy, Augustine, St., on an- 
cient, vii: 67; Dante's, xx, 294-5, 



152 



GENERAL INDEX 



326-7; Emerson on our ignorance 
of, V, 85 ; Helmholtz on science 
of, XXX, 182; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
377; Hume on, xxxvii, 444; Hux- 
ley on Greek, xxviii, 22.^% Locke 
on study of, xxxvii, 147, 157, 
165-6; Marlowe's, xix, 218-19; 
modern foundation of, xxxix, 5^ 
note; Montaigne on study or, 
xxxii, 49-50; Prometheus, origi- 
nator of, viii, 172 
Astur, ally of ^neas, xiii, 332-3 
Astyanax, son of Hector, xiii, 119, 

Astyochus, Greek admiral, xii, 135 
Aswattha, the banyan tree, xlv, 867 
Asychis, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 69- 

70 
Asylas, in the ^neid, xiii, 316, 332, 

383 
Asyniur, goddesses, xlix, 321 note 
Atabalipa, Milton on, iv, 333; Ra- 
leigh on, xxxiii, 313, 327, 329, 

33i» 341 
Atalanta, reference to apple of, 

xxxix, 144 
Atalanta, chorus from, xiii, 1247-9 
Atarbechis, city of, xxxiii, 25 
Ate, ^schylus on, viii, 32, 73, 90, 

193; Virgil on, xiii, 353 
Athamas, in sack of Troy, xiii, 112; 

Dante on, xx, 125 
Athanasian Creed, Bagehot on, 

xxviii, 203 
Athanasius, St., Pascal on, xlviii, 

308 (868) ; on psalm-singing, vii, 

195; on the Trinity, xxxiv, 84 
Atheism, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

44-7 

Atheism, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 247; 
Browne on, iii, 285; Browning 
on, xli, 958; Burke on, xxiv, 239; 
Burns on, vi, 214; Hume on, 
xxxvii, 431; Mill on, xxy, 31; 
Milton on, iv, 426; Moliere on 
charges of, xxvi, 203; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 69 (190), 80 (221), 81 
(225), 82 (228); of physicians, 
iii, 265 note; preferable to super- 
stition, 47 

Atheist, in Pii.grim*s Progress, xv, 
139-40 

Atheists, as witnesses, xxv, 232-3; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 69 (190) 

Athena, birth of, iii, 141; holder of 
key to thunderbolts, viii, 147; 
wardress of Delphi, 116; Egyptian 
worship of, xxxiii, 33, 34, 42, 88, 
91; Ruskin on, xxviii, 147 (see 
also Minerva) 

Athena, in The Furies, with Ores- 
tes and the Furies, viii, 130-4; at 
trial of Orestes, 136, 137, 141; 
ordains court of Areopagus, 142; 
casts vote for Orestes, 144, 145; 
appeases the Furies, 146-55 



Athenaeus, and Cicero, ix, 141-2 

Athenais, Queen, ix, 142 

Athene, in The Odyssey, friend of 
Ulysses, xxii, 10- 11 

Athenians, prayer of the, ii, 226 
(7) ; Taine on the, xxxix, 435-6^ 

Athenodorus, the ghost and, ix, 
328-9 

Athenodotus, Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii, 195 (13) 

Athens, ^schylus on, viii, 151-5; 
Aristophanes on decline of man- 
hood at, 453-4; and on politics 
of, 439-41, 463-4; beautifying of, 
by Pericles, xii, 49-53; books in 
ancient, xxviii, 57; bounty of an- 
cient, xii, 109; Burke on Areop- 
agus of, xxiv, 355; capital causes 
in, ii, 24; capital executions in, 
45-6; Collins on music in, xli, 
491; Dante on, xx, 17 1-2; eco- 
nomic resources of, xxviii, 44; 
houses and streets of ancient, 
xxviii, 56-7; liberty of press in, 
iii, 203-4; military spirit of, de- 
cline of, xxvii, 392; Milton on 
learning of, iv, 405-8; named for 
Minerva, xx, 208 note 3; New- 
man on intellectual supremacy of, 
xxviii, 40-3; population under 
Pericles, xii, tj\ religious liberty 
in, xxxvii, 416; sacred galleys of, 
xii, 43 note 5; St. Paul in, xliv, 
469 (16-34); Schiller on art and 
liberty in, xxxii, 250-1; Shelley on 
golden age of, xxvii, 354-5; on 
the drama in, 355.. 357; Spartan 
policy toward, xxxvi, 19; teachers 
in, rewards of, x, 142-3; the Thirty 
at, xii, 149-50 (for various por- 
tions of Athenian history, see 
Plutarch's Lives of Themisto- 
cles, Pericles, Aristides, Alci- 
BiADES, Demosthenes) 

Athens, Duke of, constable of 
France, xxxv, 47, 48, 49 

Athens, Maid of, xli, 815-16 

Athens, University Life at, 
xxviii, 52-62 

Athlete, life of an, Epictetus on, ii, 

155 (104) 
Athole, Earl of, James I and, xiii, 

1208 
Atilius, Lucius, called the^ wise, ix, 9 
AtinaSj in the -^neid, xiii, 414, 418 
Atlantic Sisters, Pleiades called, iv, 

311 , 
Atlantis, Bacon on, iii, 165-7 
Atlantis, New (see New Atlantis) 
Atlas, ^schylus on, viii, 168 and 

note 21, 171; Homer on, xxii, 10; 

Virgil on, xiii, 165, 238, 2^(>, 2^7 
Atli, The Song of, xlix, 433-43; 

remarks on, 268 
Atli, in the Volsung Tale, xlix, 

331; his future foretold, 333, 350» 



GENERAL INDEX 



153 



358; Brunhild and, 356; wedded 
to Gudrun, 362-3; his dreams, 
363; sends for Gunnar, 364-5; in 
the battle, 369. 370» 37^1 Gunnar 
and, 372; his end, 373-5 

Atli, in the Edda, his future fore- 
told, xlix, 403, 408-9, 418; Brun- 
hild and, 404; wedded to Gudrun, 
428-30; his dreams, 430-2; sends 
for Gunnar, 433-4; with Gunnar, 
439-40; Oddrun and, 461-3; his 
eating of his children, 441-2; 
death, 443 

Atmosphere, composition of the, 
XXX, 150-1; pressure of the, 152- 
5; resistance of the, 18-19; a 
blanket for the earth, 222; tem- 
perature dependent on altitude, 
223 

Atolls, Darwin on,^ xxix, 491-4; 
formed from barrier reefs, 499- 
503; causes of destruction of, 
504-5; absence of, in West In- 
dies, 506; in the Pacific, 425, 
477-91 ^ 

Atom, the universe in the, xlviii, 26 

Atonement, commencement of, xviii, 

434 
Atreus, House of, viii, 5-155 
Atreus, Thyestes and, viii, 65-6; 

Sidney on, xxvii, 20 
Atropos, "the blind Fury," iv, 76 
Attachments, Pascal on human, 

xlviii, 159 (471), 161 (479) 
Attagis, species of, in South Amer- 
ica, xxix, 106 
Attainder, bills of, in U. S., xliii, 

198 (3, 10) 
Attentions, Yu-tzu on, xliv, 6 (13), 

25 (2) 
Attia, mother of Octavius, xn, 264 
Attic Boy, Cephalus called the, iv, 

38 
Attic comedy, coarseness of, viii, 

418 
Attica, Newman on, xxvlii, 41-2; 

Rousseau on, xxxiv, 181 
Atticus, Titus Pomponlus, character 

of, ix, 82; Cicero's letters to, 83, 

85, 87, 97, 104, .138, i47» 176, 178, 

179; essays dedicated to, 7-8, 45 
Atticus, Herodes, xxviii, 61-2 
Attila, in Dante's Hell, xx, 54 
Attilio, Count, in The Betrothed, 

at Don Rodrigo's, xxi, 76-84; 108- 

9, 188-90; goes to Milan, 303-4; 

procures Cristoforo's removal, 312- 

17; dies in plague, 557 
Attinghausen, Baron, in Wilhelm 

Tell, xxvi, 394-400, 442-7 
Attius, Tullus, xii, 225 
Attorney, Hobbes on pow^r of, 

xxxiv, 430-1 
Atys, in the i^NEio, xiil, 201 
Aubignac, D', Corneille and, xxxix, 

379; Hugo on, 383 



Aubigny, Lord d', xxxv, 24, 30 

Aubrecicourt, Eustace d', xxxv, 35, 

36, 43, 44, 47 
Aubrey, on Milton, xxviu, 180-1 
Auburn, the deserted village, xli, 

521 
Auckland Islands, ferns in, xxix, 

260-1 
Audacity, Hippocrates on, xxxviii, 5 
Audley, James, at Poitiers, xxxv, 
43-4, 45, 48-9; honored by Prince 
Edward, 54-5; his gift to squires, 
56-7; new gift from Prince, 58-9 
Audley, Lord Chancellor, xxxvi, 
117, 122, 125, 126, 128. 129, 131, 
i35» 136, 137 
Audrehem, Arnold d', xxxv, 45 
Audubon, on the frigate bird, xi, 
189; on birds* nests, 266; on 
transportation of seeds, 431 
Auerbach's wine cellar, xix, 79-94 
Aufidius, death of, xxxii, 14 
Aufidius, Tullus, Coriolanus and, 
xii, i73-5» i77-9» 181, 190-1; death 
of, 191 
Auguries of Innocence, xli, 601-4 
Augurs, College of, ix, 222 note 4; 
duties of, 263 note i ; Pliny on, 
263; seniority among, 69 
Augury, defined, xxxiv, 397; among 

the Germans, xxxiii, loo-i 
August, Song Composed in, vi, 48-9 
Augusta, Epistle to, xli, 812-15 
Augusta, To, xli, 810-12 
Augustan Age, Macaulay on, xxvii, 

410 
Augustia, Donna, xxiii, 249-50, 404, 

406 
Augustine, St., Bishop of Hippo, vii, 
3-4; Alypius andNebridius friends 
of, 90-5; astrology rejected by, 
108-10; baptism of, 152-5; books 
"on the fair and fit,'^ 58-62; 
Carthage, in, 33-5; Caxton on 
teachings of, xxxix, 14-15;. Chau- 
cer on, xl, 16, 46; on Christ, vii, 
119-20, 205-6; on Christ and 
Church, xxxix, 41 note; commu- 
nistic household of, vii, 99; con- 
cubine of, 48, 100; Confessions, 
5-206; Confessions, remarks on, 
xxxi, I ; Confessions, object in 
writing, vii, 23, 25, 168-70; con- 
version of, 80-1, 85-8, 123-43; in 
Dante's Paradise, xx, 421 note 4; 
De Saci on, 399-400; on the dead, 
xxxix, 96; on death, xlviii, 343; 
death, his fear^ of, vii, 100; on 
deception, xlviii, 106 note; Des- 
cartes and, 414; disappointments 
of, vii, 89-90; on distribution of 
animals, 287 note 49; diviners 
and, 48-50; Donatists and, xxxix, 
37; on doubtful points, 40 note 
31; evil, on question of, vii, 105- 
7, iio-ii; Faustus and, 70-3; 



154 



GENERAL INDEX 



friend, loss of, 50-4; on God, 5-8, 
29-30, 40, 62-3, 78, 102-4, 120, 
i7.i-3> 182-9; on goodness of all 
things, 1 15-16; on happiness, 183- 
6; Hugo on, xxxix, 362; infancy 
and boyhood, vii, 8-21; learning, 
on his, 62-4; Luther on, xxxvi, 
280, 315; on man, xlviii, 31 note; 
Manichaeans, among, vii, 37-47, 66- 
70» 77-9; marriage, his wish for, 
97-9; memory, on the, 173-83; 
Milan, in, 79-80; on miracles, 365 ; 
xlviii, 286 (812); on monks, 
xxxix, 39 note 25; mother's death, 
158-66; Orosius and, xx, 330; 
Platonists partly convert, vii, 112- 
18; Pascal pn, xlviii, 87, 309 
(869); on praise, xxxix, 70; on 
righteousness, xlviii, 170; Rome, 
in, vii, 73-7; Scriptures, attitude 
toward, 37, 119-22; studies of, 
36-7; rhetoric, teacher of, 48, 79, 
145-8; trials and temptations of, 
189-204; truth, his search for, 96- 
7;^ Walton on, xv, 341, 346, 357-8; 
wills, on two, in man, 136-9 

Augustine of Canterbury, Roper on, 
xxxvi, 136; See of London, 
changed by, xxxv, 264; Stamford 
University, suppressed by, 391 

Augustus, ^neas, compared with, 
xiii, 20-5, 38; ^NEiD saved by, 
xiy, 107;^ Agrippa and, iii, 71; 
Ajax of, iv, 416; arts of, iii, 18; 
beauty of, 112; Britain's tribute 
to, xxxv, 332; calm nature of, iii, 
no; censorship of books under, 
205; Dante on victories of, xx, 
309-10; death of, iii, 10; decree 
of, in Luke, xliv, 362 (i); diet 
of, xxxvii, 18; favorites of, xii, 
403; Horace and, xxvii, 73; xxxix, 
171; Herod's son on, xlviii, 66 
(179); Rome, liberator of, iii, 
136; M. Aurelius on, ii, 261 (31); 
motto of, xix, 379; Ovid and, 38, 
57; Pascal on, xlviii, 51 (132); 
on pets, xii, 36; pleasure in small 
children, 382 note 11; postal serv- 
ice of, ix, 387 note; Scribonia, his 
divorce of, xiii, 38; times of, iii, 
47; vestal virgins and, ix, 265 
note; Virgil and, xiii, 3, 17-19, 
57, 85, 238; xxxix, 171 (see also 
Octavius) 

Auld, William, lines on, vi, 374 note 
16; reference to, 239 

Auld Farmer's New Year Saluta- 
tion, vi, 155-8 

Auld House, The, xii, 574-5 

Auld Lang Syne, vi, 335; Whittier 
on air of, xiii, 1439 

Auld Lichts, Burns on, party of, vi, 
16, 67-70, 96-7, 1 10-12, 192-4 

Auld Rob Morris, vi, 473 

Auld Robin Gray, xii, 570-1 



Aulestes, death of, xiii, 405 

Auletes, ^neas, ally of, xiii, 333 

Aunus, death of, xiii, 386-7 

Aurelia, Regulus and, ix, 239 

Aurelia, Caesar's mother, xii, 279, 
281, 282 

Aurelian, Bacon on, iii, 136 

Aurelius, King, v, 388 

Aurelius, Marcus, sketch of life and 
work, ii, 192; Alexander the 
prophet and, xxxvii, 406; Arnold 
on, xiii, 1 185; Machiavelli on, 
xxxvi, 66, 71; Meditations of, 
". 193-306; Pope on, xl, 447 

Aurelius, Scaurus, xxxiii, 117 

Auret, Marquis d', xxxviii, 54-61 

Auricles, of the heart, xxxviii, 86- 
91, 142, 143 

Aurinia, worship of, xxxiii, 100 

Aurochs, deterioration of the, xi, 
140 

Aurora, Cephalus, the Attic Boy, 
and, iv, 38; Orion and, xxii, 74; 
Tithonus and, v, 96; xxii, 71; 
Zephyr and, iv, 31 

Aurora, To, xl, 322-3 

Aurora Borealis, Kelvin on, xxx, 277 

Austerity, Bagehot on, xxviii, 177- 
9; not agreeable to women, 189; 
party spirit and, 193; strength of, 
lies in itself, 197 

Austin, St., Augustine called, xxxix. 
14-15; xl, 16 

Austin, Adam, For Lack of Gold, 
xii, 545 

Austin, Charles, edits Parliamentary 
Review, xxv, 79; in debating soci- 
ety, XXV, 82-3, 84; Mill on, 53-5, 
66; in Utilitarian movement, 70 

Austin, John, Mill on, xxv, 52-3; 
his friendship with Mill, 46, 51; 
paper for Westminster Review, 
65; for Parliamentary Review, 7^; 
later years of, 11 5-7, 167 

Australia, Darwin on, xxix, 455-76; 
European species in, xi, 90, 420; 
fossil mammals of, 388; glaciers 
in, 418; marsupials of, 126; na- 
tive species reduced, 141; produc- 
tions of, reason of inferiority, 
118; useful plants, absence of, 
in, 51-2 

Australians, Darwin on the, xxix, 
246, 457-9; dances of the, 475-6; 
dogs not domesticated by, xi, 269 

Austria-Hungary, Freeman on, 
xxviii, 272-3, 279 

Authorities, Bacon on, in philoso- 
phy, xxxix, 128-9; Emerson on 
quoting, v, 75-6; Hugo on citing, 
xxxix, 408; Raleigh on, 105 

Authority, Bacon on vices of, iii, 
31, 51; Channing on, in religion, 
xxviii, 354-5; Hobbes on legal, 
xxxiv, 430; Kempis on obedience 
to, vii, 221; knowledge on, xxxii» 



GENERAL INDEX 



155 



37-9; Lowell on decline of, rever- 
ence for, xxviii, 480; Luther on, 
xxxvi, 287; Mill on limits of , xxv, 
212-17, 281-301; Pascal on, and 
reason, xlviii, 445-51; Pascal on, 
in religion, 95 (260) ; Paul on, 
xxxvi, 287-8; Pliny's remarks on, 
ix, 349-50; truths on, xxv, 238-49 
Authors, in law, xxxiv, 430, 431, 
433-4; Pascal on egotism of, 
xlviii, 20 (43) ; relation of, to 
public, xxxix, 266-y 
Autobiographies, preeminent, xxxi, i 
Autobiography, Cellini on, xxxi, 5; 
Cicero on, ix, 108; James on in- 
fluence of, i, 71; Vaughan on, 

73-4 
Autolycus, xxii, 277-8 
Automata, Descartes on, xxxiv, 

45-6; Hobbes on, 319 
Automedon, in sack of Troy, xiii, 

119 
Autonoe, in The Bacch^, viii, 379, 

400, 406 
Autonomy of the Will, explained by 

concept of freedom, xxxii, 377-8; 

Kant on, xxxii, 362-4, ^Gy, the 

supreme principle of morality, 363, 

^ 371, 376 

Autumn, Ode to, xli, 903-4 
Autumn, Burns on, vi, 242-3; Camp- 
bell on, xli, 791; Collins on, 493; 
Longfellow on, xlii, 1360; Shake- 
speare on, xl, 284; Shelley on the, 
xli, 856 
Auxerre, battle of, xxxix, 86 
Auxiliary troops, Machiavelli on, 

xxxvi, 47-50 
Ava, plant, xxix, 433 
Avalanches, cause of, xxx, 224-5 
Avalos, Alfonson d', xxxi, 191 note 
Avan, province of, xliii, 26 
Avarice, ^sop's Fable on, xvii, 32 
Avarice, Arabian proverb on, xvi, 
211; Arabian verses on, 316; 
Browne on, iii, 344; Cicero on, in 
old age, ix, 70; Dante's punish- 
ment of, XX, 29-31, 224-6; in- 
stances of, 230-1; Dante on, 227 
note I ; Epictetus on growth of, 
ii, 144-5; Krishna on, xlv, 872; 
miserliness contrasted with, xxxvi, 
53; Mohammed on, xlv, 894; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 167 (502); Penn on, 
i, 347-8; Shakespeare on, xlvi, 
358 
Avaricious and Envious, fable of, 

xvii, 32 
Avenant, Sir William d', Dawn 

Song, xl, 364 
Aventinus, son of Hercules, xiii, 

266 
Avernus, Lake, xiii, 220 
Averroes, Dante on, xx, 21 note 
Aversion, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 350-3; 
language of, 358 



Avianius, Cicero and, ix, 109 
Aviaries, Bacon on, iii, 123 
Avicenna, in Dante's Limbo, xx, 21; 

on tumefaction, xxxviii, 121 
Avila, Don Louis de, works of, xiv, 

59 
Avilion, island-valley of, xlii,^ 1026 
Aviones, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 118 
Avitus, letter to, ix, 225^^ 
Avoidance, Aurelius on, ii, 238 (20) 
Awa', Whigs, Aw a', vi, 381 
Awe, Confucius on, xliv, 30 (22), 

57 (8) 
Awood, John, More and, xxxvi, 127 
Ax, speckled, story of, i, 88-9 
Axioms, Montaigne on, xlviii, 397; 

Pascal's rules for, 411 
Aye My Wife She Dang Me, vi, 

551 

Ayeshah, wife of Mohammed, xlv, 
1006 note I 

Ayr, The Brigs of, vi, 242-8 

Ayr, Farewell Song to Banks of, 
vi, 250 

Ayrton, William, in Hazlitt's discus- 
sion, xxvii, 281-92 

Aytoun, Sir William, Refusal of 
Charon, xli, 943-4 

Azara, Don Felix, on carrion- 
hawks, xxix, 67, 69; on cattle in 
Paraguay, xi, 86; on hydrophobia, 
xxix, 374; on ostrich eggs, 103; 
on Pampas Indians, 117 note; on 
plants along new tracks, 131; on 
wild horses in droughts, 146; on 
wasps and spiders, 46 note 9; 
on S. American rainfall, 57 note 

Azazel, standard bearer of Satan, 
iv, 103 

Azores, stocked by glaciers, xi, 410 

Azotos, siege of, xxxiii, 81 

Azpetia, Don Sancho de, the Bis- 
caine, xiv, 76 

Azura, Phineas Ibn, xlv, 977 note 24 

Azzecca-Garbugli, in The Betrothed, 
xxi, 41, 43-9. 77y 80, 81, 84, 424, 
662 

Azzolino, Dante on, xx, 53 and 
note 8 

Baalim, Milton on, iv, loi 

Baal-peor, xliv, 284 (28) 

Baba Mustafa, in Ali-Baba, xvi, 
448-9, 450-1 

Babel, Tower of, Browne on, iii, 
288; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 336; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 107, 346-7; its build- 
ers in Limbo, 149 

Babie, The, by Miller, xli, 944-5 

Babieca, horse of the Cid, xiv, 17- 
18; saddle of, 515 

Babington, Rev. Dr., lines on, vi, 

533 
Babrius, Valerius, ^sop and, xvii, 3 
Baby, by MacDonald, xlii, 11 64-5 
Babylon, Milton on, iv, 395; Milton 

on captivity in, 354; psalm on 



156 



GENERAL INDEX 



captivity in, xliv, 323; Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 74 

Babylon: or Bonnie Banks o* 
FoRDiE, xl, 58-9 

Bagan, Alvaro de, xiv, 405 

Baccalaos, Newfoundland called, 
xxxiii, 290 

BACCH.E, The, of Euripides, viii, 
349-415 

Bacchic mysteries, Herodotus on, 
xxxiii, 41-2 

Bacchus, Amalthea*s son, iv, 164; 
Circe and, 47; Dryden on, xl, 
402; Euripides on, viii, 352-3. 363* 
364-5 

Bacchus, India, return from, xiii, 
238; mirth, father of, iv, 31; 
mother of, xii, 281; Pentheus and, 
viii, 116; Sophocles on, 278-9 

Bacchus, Thebes, guardian of, viii, 
203-4; worship of, described, 379- 
82; worship of, various forms of, 
xii, 351 note (see also Dionysus 
lacchus) 

Bachelors, andent penalty on, ix, 
424 note 3 

Bachiacca, the embroiderer, xxxi, 58 
note 2, 369 note 5 

Bachiacca, the painter, xxxi, 58 note 
2, 67, 68-9 

Bachman, on carrion vultures, xxix, 
199. 

Backbite, Sir Benjamin, in School 
FOR Scandal, xviii; epigram of, 
128; Maria's lover, 115; Sneer- 
well's, at, 118-22, 129-30, 13 1-3; 
Lady Teazle's, at, after the scan- 
dal, 179-84 

Backsliding, in religion, xv, 156-8 

Bacon, Francis, Emerson on, v, 453- 
4, 456, 458; Essays, iii, 7-149; re- 
marks on Essays, 4; Hazlitt on, 
xxvii, 291 note 14; Herbert, 
George, and, xv, 387; Hobbes and, 
xxxiv, 318; inquiry on, xi, 1; 
Instauratio Magna, Preface to, 
xxxix, 122-49; Instauratio Magna, 
remarks on preface to, 3 ; Jonson 
on, xxvii, 60-1 ; Jonson on times 
of, V, 455; language of, xxxix, 
206; Life, xl, 358-9; life and 
works, iii, 3-4, 152; Montaigne 
and, xxxii, 3; New Atlantis, iii, 
151-91; Novum Organum, preface 
to, xxxix, 150-4; Pope on, xl, 
448; on prodigies, xxxvii, 413-14; 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 118; on re- 
form, V, 385; on Rome, 376; 
Shakespeare not mentioned by, 
xxxix, 334; Shelley on, xxvii, 
350-1; on similitudes, 347; Vol- 
taire on, xxxiv, 99-103 

Bacon, Sir Nicholas, iii, 3; Jonson 
on, xxvii, 60 

Bacon, Roger, Emerson on, v, 410; 
Newman on, xxv'n, 48 



Bacteria, absorption of oxygen by, 

xxxviii, 343; air and, 351-2; 

animal nature of, 359; Lister on, 

271 
Badow, Richard, founder of Clare 

Hall, XXXV, 401 
Baer, Von, on embryos, xi, 479; on 

standard of organization, 135; on 

the bee, 386 
Badgemagus, King, xxxv, 12 1-3; 

tomb of, 216 
Bagehot, Walter, On Milton, 

xxviii, 171-214; life and works of, 

170 
Baglioni, Malatesta, xxxi, y:^ note 5 
Baglioni, Orazio, xxxi, y^ note 5, 

76-8, 84 and note 
Bagot, Charles, correspondence with 

Mr. Rush, xliii, 283-5 
Bahamas, Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 

390 
Bahia, Darwin on, xxix, 22, 521-2 
Bahia Blanca, Darwin on, xxix, 85- 

117 
Bahram, reference to, xli, 973 
Bail, excessive, forbidden, xliii, 

208 (8) ; right of, in Massa- 
chusetts, 7^ (18) 
Bailiff, Chaucer's, xl, 27-8 
Baillie, Lady Grisel, Werena My 

Heart, xl, 409-10 
Baillie, Joanna, Constantine of, 

XXV, 16 note 
Bailly, M., as mayor of Paris, xxiv, 

391-2; on October Sixth, 222 

note; Burke on death of, 227 

note 
Bain, Alexander, Mill and, xxv, 

157 note 2, 167, 196 
Baird, Dr., on Franklin, i, 61 
Baithis, sons of, xlix, 257 
Bajazet, Raleigh on, xxxix, 103; 

Selymus and, iii, 53 
Bakbak, story of, xvi, 180-4 
Baker, Henry Williams, Hymn, 

xlv, 548 
Baker, Sir Samuel, on the giraffe, 

xi, 231 
Bakewell, the agriculturist, v, 376 
Balaam, death of, xxxix, 99; Milton 

on, iv, 375; prophecy of Rome, 

xxxvi, 344 
Balaam's Ass, Luther on, xxxvi, 

285 
Balaguet, Emir of, xlix, 128-9, 141 
Balan, Balin and, xxxv, 115 
Balance, Penn on, i, 365-6 
Balance of Power, Bacon on, iii, 

52 
Balance of Produce and Consump- 
tion, X, 387 
Balance of Trade, doctrine of, x, 
329-46; methods used to make 
favorable, 346-7; absurdity of 
whole doctrine, Z77'^7'» criterions 
of, 372-6 



GENERAL INDEX 



157 



Balbo, Girolamo, xxxi, 66 note 
Balbus, Cornelius, Caesar and, xii, 

324; Cicero and, ix, 118, 119 
Bald Head, Australia, xxix, 474-5 
Bald Man and Fi,y, fable of, xvii, 

17 

Baldini, Bernardone, .and the dia- 
mond, xxxi, 367-8, 276, 377; and 
the necklace, 408; relations with 
Cellini, 376, 415-16, 419, 438 

Baldock, in Edward II, xlvi, 26-8, 
35, 51, 58» 59, 60, 62-3 

Balducci, Giacopo, xxxi, 1 13-14 

Baldwin, and the Genovese, iii, 293 

Baldwin, son of Ganelon, xlix, 107, 
109 

Baleen, of whales, xi, 236-40 

Baligant, Emir of BalDylon, xlix, 196 
note 

Balin le Savage, xxxv, 115 

Baliol, John, Dante on, xx, 369 
note 8 

Baliol, the devil, in Faustus, xix, 
211 

Ball, John, Froissart on, xxxv, 62-3; 
in Wat Tyler's Rebellion, 65, 70, 
73* 74, 77; death of, 82 

Ballads, Traditional, x1,_ 51-189 

Ballantine, John, inscription to, vi, 
242; reference to, 372 note 3 

Ballantyne, James, and Scott, xxv, 
446-8 

Ballemar, Chili, xxix, 369 

Balliol, John, founder of Balliol Col- 
lege, xxxv, 402 

Ballmer, George, loss of, xxiii, 39, 
42 

Ballochmyle, Farewell to, vi, 115 

Ballochmyle, Lass of, vi, 230 

Ballot, Burke on the, xxiv, 355; 
Mill on the, xxv, 165 

Balmerino, Burns on, vi, 306 

Balow, xl, 189-90 

Balsam of Fierebras, xiv, 80-1; pre- 
pared by Don Quixote, 138 

Balsham, Hugh, founder of Peter 
College, xxxv, 401 

Baltic, The Battle of the, xli, 
798-800 

Balzac, Jean Louis de, Philarchus 
on, xiii, 63 

Ban, King, xxxv, 159-60 

Bancroft, George, and Emerson, v, 
482 

Band dog, Harrison on the, xxxv, 
371-3; cross between bear and, 

^375 ^ . 

Banda Oriental, province of, xxix, 

155-71 

Bandaging, Harvey on, xxxviii, 116- 
21 

Bande Nere, Giovanni delle, xxxi, 
16 note I 

Bandinello, Baccio, xxxi, 14 note i; 
Cellini, relations with, 99, 364, 
374, 379, 380, 381, 383-7, 417, 
418-19, 429; choir by, 430; Duke 



Cosimo and, 360 note 4, 362, 409, 
433-4; father of, 14-15; "Hercu- 
les^' of, 384-5 note I, 433-4; knight 
of St. James, 428 note; **Pieta'* 
of, 437-8 
Bandini, Giovan, no note 
Bandini, Don Juan, xxiii, 244-5, 248- 

9, 408 
Bank failures, Ruskin on, xxviii, 118 
Bank of Flowers, On a, vi, 361 
Banking corporations, x, 482-4 
Banknote, Lines on a, vi, 232 
Bank-notes (see Paper Money) 
Bankruptcy, Smith on, x, 282 
Bankruptcy laws, Ruskin on, xxviii, 
118; under control of Congress, 
xliii, 196 (4) 
Banks, power of Congress to incor- 
porate, xliii, 223-4, 226-30, 237-40 
Banks and banking. Smith on, x, 

240-69 
Banks of Ayr, Farewell to, ti, 

250-1 
Banks of th£ Devon, vi, 303 
Banks o* Doon, vi, 422-4 
Banks of Nith, vi, 362 
Banks, Sir J., expedition of, xxix, 

225 
Bannerets, Harrison on, xxxv, 234 
Bannockburn, vi, 502-3 
Bai^nocks o* Bear Meal, vi, 523 
Banquets, Cicero on, ix, 62; skele- 
tons at Egyptian, xxxii, 16, 19 
Banquo (in Macbeth), captain of 
Duncan, xlvi, 307; with witches, 
309-11; with king's messengers, 
311, 312-13; received by king, 
314; at Macbeth's castle, 317; 
with Fleance, 321; with Macbeth 
Defore the murder, 321-2; after 
murder, 329, 330; murder of, 339; 
ghost of, 341-2, 343, 351; solilo- 
quy of, 332-3; with Macbeth as 
king, 333-4; plot to kill, 334-7 
Banyan tree, xlv, 867 
Baptism, Browne on, iii, 309-10; 
Calvin on, xxxix, 54; conversion 
by, story of, vii, 51; Dante on 
necessity of, xx, 18, 422; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 279, 280, 332, 336; 
Milton on, iv, 356-7; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 172 (520), 343; Pascal on, 
of children, xlviii, 380; Paul, St., 
on, xliv, 472-3 ; Quakers on, xxxiv, 
66-7 
Barabbas, xliv, 421 (18-19, 25) 
Baraquan, Orinoco called, xxxiii, 328 

note 
Barateve, island of, xxxiii, 231-2 
Barbara, by Smith, xlii, 11 92-4 
Barbara Allan, a ballad, xl, 69-70 
Barbara Frietchie, xlii, 1439-41 
Barbarians, Milton on invasion of 

the, iv, 99 
Barbariccia, the demon, xx, 90, 92 
Barbarossa, Frederick (see Freder- 
ick I) 



158 



GENERAL INDEX 



Barbarossa, the pirate, xiv, 405 
Barbauld, Anna Laetitia, Life, xli, 

568; Burns on, vi, 434 
Barberry, crosses of the, xi, iii 
Barber's Story, in Arabian Nights, 

xvi, 171-200 
Barbers, verses on, xvi, 165 
Barca, Giacopino della, xxxi, 90-1, 92 
Barce, nurse of Sichaeus, xiii, 179 
Barclay, Robert, Apology of, xxxiv, 

74; on Quaker faith, 68 
Barclay of Ury, xlii, 1424-7 
Bard, The, xl, 468-72 ^ 
Bard's Epitaph, A, vi, 228-9 
Bardi, Simone dei, husband of Bea- 
trice, XX, 3 
Barding, among the Germans, xxxiii, 

96 
Bardism, Renan on, xxxii, 175-7, 148 
Bards, ancient title of, v, 183; 

Renan on Celtic, xxxii, 148, 175-7 
Barebones, Hugo on, xxxix, 400 
Barefoot Boy, The, xlii, 143 1-4 
Barfleur, capture of, xxxv, 8, 9 

note; importance of , 11 note 3 
Bargaining, Bacon on, iii, 93 
Bargello, the, xxxi, 103 note 
Bar-Jesus,_xliv, 458 (6-11); Pascal 

on, xlviii, 299 
Barking-bird, Darwin on the, xxix, 

306 
Barlaam and Josaphat, xxvi, 4 
Barlass, Kate, xlii, 1200-1, 1202, 

1207, 1216-17 
Barlow, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

351 

Barmekis Feast, xvi, I95;7 

Barnabas, at Antioch, xliv, 455 {22- 
6), 464; Jerusalem, mission to, 
455 (30), 457 (25)» 463; Lystra, 
men of, and, xxxvi, 311-12; Paul 
and, xliv, 450 {27), 458 i2-7)y 
460-2, 465 (36-7) 

Barnacle Geese, Harrison on, xxxv, 

353 

Barnave, on October sixth, xxiv, 
222 note 

Barnfield, Richard, The Nightin- 
gale, xl, 290 

Barnhelm,^ Minna von, and Bruch- 
sal, xxvi, 364-5; Franzisca, scenes 
with, 301-3, 309-10, 311-13, 332-4» 
338-40, 341; Just, scene with, 310- 
11; landlord, scene with, 303-8, 
309; Riccaut de la Marliniere, 
scene with, 334-8; Tellheim, scenes 
with, 312-15, 341-8, 353-64 

Barnwell, George, xxvii, 319 note, 
324 

Baron of Brackley, a ballad, xl, 
120-3 

Baron, origin of word, xxxiv, 383 

Barontus, story of, xxxii, 184 

Barrande, M., "colonies'* of, xi, 365; 
discoveries of, 360; on palaeozoic 
animals, 379; on silurian deposits, 
377; on succession of species, 375 



Barras, Comte de, xliii, 184 
Barratry, in Massachusetts, xliii, 76 

(34) ^ 
Barre, Burke on, xxiv, 417 
Barrett, Elizabeth, and Browning, 

xviii, 356 
Barrier-reefs, Darwin on, xxix, 494- 

Barriers, relation of, to species, xi, 

^ 396-7 , .. „ 

Barry, the actor, xxvii, 289 
Barsabbas, xliv, 430 (23), 464 (22) 
Bartas, Du, Creation of, xxxix, 333 
Barter, human propensity to, x, 19- 
20; inconveniences of, 29; in re- 
lation to division of labor, 21-4 
Barterers, in Dante's Hell, xx, 87- 

8, 91-4 
Bartholomew, the apostle, xliv, 373 

(14), 430 (13); patron of New 

Atlantis, iii, 163 
Barthram's Dirge, xli, 788-9 
Bartolini, Onofrio de, xxxi, 429 note 
Barton, George, xxxiii, 2^7* 243, 246 
Barzanes, in tJtopia, xxxvi, 192 
Basan and Basil, xlix, 104, 114 
Bashan, mountain of, xliv, 228 
Bashfulness, Emerson on, v, 114; 

Locke on, xxxvii, 54-5, 128; Basil 

and Basan, xlix, 104, 108, 114 
Basil, Council of, xxxix, 45-6 
Basil, St., at Athens, xxviii, 56, 62\ 

on use of Homer, viii, 210 
Basil, the smith (see Lajeunesse) 
Basilio, in Life a Dream, relates 

story of Segismund, xxvi, 20-3; 

his plan to try Segismund, 23-7; 

hears of Segismund from Clotaldo, 

27-8; with Segismund, 41-7; in the 

battle, 64-5; resigns crown to 

Segismund, 66-7 
Basilisk, the serpent, xlvii, 651 note 
Baskerville, Sir Thomas, xxxiii, 235 
Basket, Fuegia, xxix, 222-3, 237-8, 

242, 244 
Basoche, Hugo on the, xxxix, 369 
Basset, Lord, at Crecy, xxxv, 2Z\ 

at Poitiers, 42; at Poix castle, 

17 
Bassompierre, M. de, xxxviii, 54 
Basstarnians, xxxiii, 122-3 
Bassus, Aufidius, ix, 243 note 3 
Bassus, Gabius, Pliny on, 389, 391 
Bat, Birds, and Beasts, fable of, 

xvii, 20 
Batalus, Plutarch on, xii, 200 
Batavians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

111-12 
Bateman, William, founder of Trin- 
ity Hall, xxxv, 401 
Bates, Mr., on ants, xi, 294; on but- 
terflies, 465, 466 
Bath, Knights of the, xxxv, 2^2 
Baths, health, in New Atlantis, iii, 
183; Locke on cold, xxxvii, 13-14; 
origin of name, vii, 163 
Bathsheba, Winthrop on, xliii, lOO 



GENERAL INDEX 



159 



Batrachians, absence of, from is- 
lands, xi, 435-6 

Bats, Blake on, xli, 601; Collins on 
the, 492; range of, xi, 437; wings 
of, 186 

Bats'-eyes, Mrs., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 189, 190 

Battiferra, Laura, xxxi, 445 note 

Battista, Giovan (II Tasso), xxxi, 
25-6, 28, 360 note 5, 409 

Battle, eyes vanquished first in, 
xxxiii, 120; not too strong, xliv, 

351 (11) 
Batjan, island of, xxxiii, 231-2 
Baubo, reference to, xix, 165-6 
Bauge, M. de, at Metz, xxxviii, 26; 

prisoner to De Vaudeville, 44-5 
Bauhin, ^ Caspar, on the heart, 

xxxviii, 86 
Baumgarten, Conrad, in Wilhelm 
Tell, flight of, xxvi, 372-5; Hed- 
wig and, 443; Rootli League, at, 
401, 405, 414; Uri, at keep of, 
462, 463; Wolfshot killed by, 387 
Bavius, Shelley on, xxvii, 375-6 
Bayle, Pierre, Carlyle on, xxv, 462-3 
Bazeilles, the Moine of, xxxv, 24-5 
Beagle Channel, xxix, 23s 
Be Not Dismayed, xlv, 572 
Beacon, first, in Ireland, xlix, 229 
Beagle, Voyage of the, xxix 
Beales, Mr. Mill on, xxv, 185 
Bear and Two Fellows, fable of, 

xvii, 31 
Bear AND Willow Wren, story of, 

xvii, 201 
Bearing, Brynhild on, and forbear- 
ing, xlix, 325; Epictetus on, and 
forbearing, ii, 179 (183); Jonson 
on, xl, 299-300; Kempis on, vii, 
228; Penn on, i, 356, 364.(294); 
(see also Patience) 
Bears, Darwin on black, xi, 188; in 

Egypt, xxxiii, 37 
Bearskin, story of, xvii, 197 
Bearwards, Harrison on, xxxv, 322 
Beat! Beat! Drums! xlii, 1484 
Beatitude, Raleigh on, xxxix, 94 
Beatrice, Dante and, xx, 3-4 
Beatrice, in Divine Comedy, xx, 
10-12, 270-7, 282-418, 420; Ar- 
nold on speech of, xxviii, 73; 
Hugo on, xxxix, 367; Ruskin on, 
xxviii, 145 
Beattie, James, Minstrel of, xxxix, 
314; references to, vi, 174, 185 
Beatty, Mr., with Franklin, i, 148-9 
Beauchamp, Philip, On Natural Re- 
ligion, xxv, 49-50 
Beauchamp, Richard, Earl of War- 
wick, V, 419; xxxv, 108 
Beaujeu, Lord, xxxv, 24, 30, 38 
Beaumarchais, Hugo on, xxxix, 375, 
^ 376, 403 

Beaumont, in Edward II, xlvi, 24 

Beaumont, Francis, sketch of life 

and works, xlvii, 638; Letter to 



Jonson, xl, 328-30; Philaster, 
xlvii, 639-718; Tombs in West- 
minster Abbey, xl, 327 

Beaumont, Sir George, Wordsworth 
on picture, by, xli, 620-2 

Beaumont and Fletcher, Dryden on, 
xxxix, 334; editorial remarks on 
plays of, xlvii, 638; Emerson on 
plays of, V, 125; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 
291; Philaster, xlvii, 639-718 

Beautiful, The Sublime and, 
xxiv, 7-148 

Beautiful Miss Eliza J — n, vi, 532 

Beautiful Palace, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 49 

Beauty, Bacon's Essay on, iii, in- 
12 

Beauty, Emerson's Essay on, v, 
307-21 

Beauty, Augustine, St., on, vii, 58, 
60; Berkeley on, xxxvii, 242; 
Burke on, xxiv, 15, 39, 47, 77- 
109, 125-35; Burns on, vi, 501, 
587; Channing on study of, 
xxviii, 339; Coleridge on, xxvii, 
272, 277; Crashaw on, xl, 370; 
Daniel on, 225; Darley on, xli, 
938-9; Darwin on, ii, 210-12, 511; 
xxix, 427; David on things of, 
xli, 509; Emerson on, v, 105, 140, 
173, 174, 207, 229; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 366-8; 406; Hume on, 
xxvii, 218; xxxvii, 309, 444-5.; 
Keats on, and melancholy, xli, 
906; M. Aurelius on, ii, 206-7, 
216 (20); Milton on, iv, 6, 57, 
66y 169, 381, 444; More on, xxxvi, 
215-16, 224; Nashe on, xl, 266; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 16 (32), 419- 
20; Plato on, ii, 95; Poe on sense 
of, xxviii, 388-90; Poe on, and 
sadness, 394; Raleigh on, xl, 209; 
Ruskin on, of woman, xxviii, 151- 
2; Schiller on influence and 
development of, xxxii, 221, 224, 
248-84, 287-91, 298-313; Shake- 
speare on, xl, 270, 278, 280-1; 
xlvi, 136; Waller on, xl, 367; 
Whitman on, xxxix, 415. 4^7 

Beauty and the Beast, Emerson on 
legend of, v, 361; Hugo on, xxxix, 

369 
Beauty Bathing, xl, 203-4 
Beauty, Genius in, xlii, 1226 
Beauty, The True, xl, 360-1 
Beauty, Time, and Love, xl, 223-6 
Beaver, Harrison on the, xxxv, 360 
Bebius, death of, xxxii, 14 
Beccaria, Abbot, in Dante's Hell, 

XX, 136 and note 10 
Bechamp, M., xxxviii, 3^7 ^^\f* 374 
Becket, Thomas a. Bacon on, iii, 53; 

Chaucer "on, xl, 11; Dryden on, 

xxxix, 172 note 21; Harrison on, 

XXXV, 266, 403 
Bede, Venerable, sketch of life, xx, 

330 note 27; first doctor of Cam- 



yOL. L — HC (6) 



160 



GENERAL INDEX 



bridge, xxxv, 398; in Dante's 
Paradise, xx, 330; on Purgatory, 
xxxii, 187 

Bedford, Duke of, Burke and, xxiv, 
400; Burke's reply to attack of, 
401-43; estates 01, v, 420 

Bedivere, Sir, xlii, 1019-26 

Bedr, battle of, xlv, 956 note 4, 961 
note 12, 962 note 2, 972 

Bedr Basim, xvi, 349-50, 35-2-4 

Bedr-ed-Din, the Gardener, xvi, 131 

Bedr-el-Budur, the Sultan's daugh- 
ter, xvi, 380-443 

Beds, in old England, xxxv, 313-14; 
Locke on, for children, xxxvii, 24 

Bedsores, Pare on, xxxviii, 57 

Beelzebub, in Paradise Lost, iv, 93- 
4, 97, 1 18-21 

Beelzebub, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 30 

Beelzebub, Address of, vi, 215-16 

Beer, Harrison on making of, xxxv, 
298-300 

Bees, Browne on wisdom of, iii, 278 
(15); cell-making instinct of, xi, 
279-88; clover and, 108; drones 
and queen, 214-15; as fertilizing 
agents, 87-8; Harrison on, xxxv, 
365; mice and, xi, 88; Milton on, 
iv, 109, 242; parasitic, xi, 275; 
Pope on, xl, 438; sting of, xi, 214; 
Swift on, xxvii, 121; time-saviiiLC 
of, xi, 108; Virgil's description of, 
xiii, 90; Von Baer on, xi, 386; 
wax of, 266 

Beethoven, his musical setting of 
Egmont, xix, 246 

Beetles, Brazilian, xxix, 44 and note 
7; Collins on, xli, 492; dung-f ced- 
ing, xxix, 516 note; at Port St. 
Julian, 184; at sea, xi, 429; xxix, 
172-3; springing, xxix, 41; with- 
out anterior tarsi, xi, 148; wing- 
less, 148-9 

Beet-root sugar, Pasteur on, xxxviii, 
320 note 

Begbie, Ellison, vi, 29 note 

Beggars, The Jolly, vi, 129-40 

Beggars, Blake on, xli, 603; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 329-30; More on, 
164 

Beggar's Song^ in Faust, xix, 38 

Beginnings, ^sop on, xvii, 14-15, 
21; Goethe on, xix, 352; Hugo on, 
and ends, xxxix, 372; Machiavelli 
on, xxxvi, 12; merry, make sad 
endings, vii, 235 (7); most easy 
to check, 225 

Behavior, Bacon on, iii, 132; Emer- 
son on, v, 222; Epictetus on, ii, 
175 (164) 

Behemoth, references to, iv, 242 ; 
xliv, 139 (15) 

Behmen, Jacob, Emerson on, v, 145, 
184, 243 

Behold, My Love, How Green the 
Groves, vi, 538-9 



Behold the Hour, the Boat, Ar. 

RIVE, vi, 456 

Behold the Hour, the Boat, Ar- 

RIVE, vi, 503-4. 
Behring, the navigator, Emerson on, 

V, 86 
Bekkluld, sister of Brynhild, xlix, 

Belacqua, m Dante's Purgatory, xx, 

162-3 
Belcher, the devil, in Faustus, xix, 

211 
Belgians, eating custom of, xxxv, 303 
Belial, in Paradise Lost, iv, 102-3, 

113-16, 222 
Belial, in Paradise Regained, iv, 

379-81 
Belianis, Don, Burke on romance of, 
xxiv, 20; Cervantes on romance 
of, xiv, 54-5 ; Don Quixote on, 20, 
loi; to Don Quixote, 15 
Belief, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 361-2; 
Hume on, xxxvii, 342, 343-50, 35^- 
3. 394, 397-9, 403; Pascal on, xlviii, 
34 (81), 42 (99), 90-103, 174 
(536); through understanding and 
will, 406-8 
Belisarius, Dante on, xx, 308; Ra- 
leigh on, xxxix, 103 
Bell, The, story of, xvii, 378-83 
Bell Mountain, Chili, xxix, 272-5 
Bellario, in Philaster, as Philaster's 
boy, xlvii, 652-3; sent to princess, 
655-7, 661; with Arethusa, 662-3; 
accused as Arethusa's lover, 668- 
9, 672; with Philaster, 674-8; Are- 
thusa ordered to dismiss, 678-81; 
parting from Arethusa, 682-3; 
meets Philaster in woods, 686-7; 
with Arethusa in wood, 690-1 ; 
asleep on bank, 695; wounded by 
Philaster, 696; taken by Phara- 
mond, 697-8; saved by Philaster, 
698-9; with Philaster in prison, 
700-2; announces to king marriage 
of Philaster, 703 ; denounced by 
Megra, 713; condemned to tor- 
ture, 714; confesses, 714-18 
Bellarmati, Girolamo, xxxi, 342 

note 3 
Bellarmine, Cardinal, xv, 329 
Bellay, M. du, Montaigne on, xxxii, 

64, 104-5 
Belle Dame Sans Merci, xli, 917-19 
Bellefontaine, Benedict, the farmer 
of Grand-Pre, xlii, 1356; on even- 
ing of Evangeline's betrothal, 
1362-5, 1368-9; at betrothal feast, 
1371; on day of exile, 1378, 1380; 
death, 1382 
Bellegarde, Abbe, on ridicule, xxxix, 

188 
Bellerophon, reference to, iv, 230 
Bellerus, reference to, iv, 78 
Belles of Mauchline, vi, 62 
Belles Lettres, Hume on, xxxvii, 
309 



GENERAL INDEX 



163 



Bill of Rights, in Constitution, xliii, 

207-8 
Bills of Credit, under Confedera- 
tion, xliii, 175; forbidden to states 
under Constitution, 198 (10) 
Bills of Exchange, x, 247, 254 
Bimbisara, King, xlv, 771-2 
Bingham, editor, Mill on, xxv, 65, 

66, 75, -jy, 79 
Bingham, the Kanaka, xxiii, 15 1-2 
Biography, Bagehot on methods of, 
xxviii, 1 71-3; Carlyle on, xxv, 
415-17, 413; history made up of, 
V, y2\ Johnson on, xxvii, 186; 
poetry, compared with, xxxix, 294 
3ion, Bacon on, iii, 45 
3iorn, son of Karlsefni, xliii, 21 
Birago, Francesco, Manzoni on, xxi, 

468 
Birderg, son of Ruan, xlix, 239-40 
Birds, Burns on the haunts of, vi, 
48; Darwin on color of, xi, 146; 
fears of, 266; xxix, 424; migra- 
tory, iv, 241; nests of, xi, 266; 
non-flying, 147-8, 186; of oceanic 
islands, 433-4; seeds distributed 
by, 407-10, 430-1; sexual selection 
among, 102; tame, instances of, 
xxix, 422-3 
jirks, of Aberfeldy, The, vi, 292-3 
Birnam Wood, xlvi, 350, 366, 368, 

370 
3irney, Gen., at Gettysburg, xlin, 

371 
Birth, Browne on life before, iii, 
304 (39); Buddha on, xlv, 678-9; 
Burke on preference to, xxiv, 
200; Hippolytus on, viii, 314; 
Pascal on accident of, xlviii, 383; 
on advantages of noble, 112 
(322); on respect for, 113 (324), 
117 (335» 337); Shakespeare on, 
xlvi, 105; a sleep and a forget- 
ting," xli, 611 
5irtha, Dame, xx, 344 note 24 
Birthday Ode for 31ST December, 

1787, vi, 306-7 
birthplaces, Plutarch on, xii, 197 
5iscop, Benedict, xxxv, 310 
JisHOP Orders His Tomb, xlii, 11 17 
Jishops, Calvin on, xxxix, 44; in 
Catholic Church, xxxvi, 296, 308; 
confirmation of, 304; early elec- 
tions of, 279-80; Luther on, 317- 
18; Ruskin on, xxviii, iii 
Jithynia, Pliny's administration of, 

ix, 383-437 
Jitias, in the -<^neid, xiii, loi, 320, 

321 
iitterness, as source of the sublime, 

xxiv, 75-6 
5ixBY, Mrs., Letter to, xliii, 446 
Jizcacha, Darwin on the, xxix, 136- 

7, 398, 469 
Jlack, "wisdom's hue," iv, 35 
51ack, John, Mill on, xxv, 61-2 
Jlack-Eyed Susan, xl, 412-13 



Black Islands, The Young King 

OF THE, Xvi, 50-9 

Black Prince, Audley and, xxxv, 54- 
5, 58-9; in campaign of Crecy, 
5-6,^ lo-ii, 12, 23, 2(>, 29, 31; 
Froissart and, 3; King John and, 
55» 57-8, 59; in Poitiers cam- 
paign, 34-7, 40-7, 53, 58-60 

Blacklock, the poet, Burke on, xxiv, 

Blacklock, Dr., Epistle to, vi, 387 
Blackmore, Sir Richard, xxxix, 181 

note, 183 note 
Blackness, Burke on effects of, xxiv, 

121-5 
Blacksmith, The Village, xlii, 

1323 
Blackwood's Magazine, Carlyle on, 

Blaesus, Velleius, story of, ix, 238-9 
Blair, Sir James, Elegy on, vi, 

287-9 
Blake, William, Poems, xli, 597-606 
Blame (see Censure) 
Blamire, Susanna, poem by, xli, 

593-4 
Blanc, Mont, Byron on, xviii, 405; 

Coleridge on, xli, 724 
Blancandrin, xlix, 98-9, 100, lOi? 

110-12, 114 
Blanche-Taque, battle of, xxxv, 20-1 
Blasphemers, in Dante's Hell, xx, 

47, S9-6i 

Blasphemy, in early Massachusetts, 
xliii, 84 (3); penalized in Athens, 
iii, 203 

Blastus, the chamberlain, xliv, 457 
(20) 

Blenheim, After, xli, 749-51 

Blessed Damozel, The, xlii, 11 96- 
1200 

Blind animals, Darwin on, xi, 150- 
2; xxix, 62 

Blind Boy, The, xl, 452-3 

Blind man, parable of the, xliv, 375 
(39) 

Blind-man, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 101-2 

Blindness, Milton on His, iv, 86 

Blindness, Milton on, iv, 139, 420-2; 
Schiller on, xxvi, 389 

Bliss, Hindu conception of perfect, 
xlv, 828; Hogg on the greatest, 
xli, 784 

Blood, circulation of the (see Circu- 
lation of Blood) 

Bloodhounds, Harrison on, xxxv, 

369 . . 
Blood-poisoning, Harvey on, xxxviii, 

132-3 
Bloody-Man, the giant, xv, 224 
Blossius, Gains, Gracchus and, ix, 

21-2; Lelius and, xxxii, 81 
Blossom, The, xl, 319-20 
Blossoms, To, xl, 348 
Blot in the 'Scutcheon, A, xviii, 

356-400 



164 



GENERAL INDEX 



Blow, Bugle, Blow, xlii, 1003 
Blundell, Dr., on puerperal fever, 

xxxviii, 235, 243 
Bluntness, Shakespeare on, xlvi, 236 
Blushing, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 356 
Blythe Hae I Been on Yon Hill, 

vi, 493 
Blythe Was She, vi, 301-2 
Boadicea: An Ode, xli, 551-3 
Boastfulness, Bacon on, iii, 134-5; 

Kempis on folly of, vii, 219-20 
Boat Song, by Burns, vi, 278-9 
Boats, of the Britons, xxxv, 380; 

in ancient Egypt, xxxiii, 47; of 

the Germans, 121 
Boatswain, in The Tempest, xlvi, 

379-81, 439 
Bobadilla, Francesco de, Bishop of 

Salamanca, xxxi, 35 note 2, 40, 

43-7 , ^ 
Bobolink, Bryant on the, xlii, 1264-6 
Boccaccio, on Arthur, xxxix, 22; 
Chaucer and, 162, 167, 172, 175, 
179-80; Dryden on, 162; Hazlitt 
on, xxvii, 285-6; Hume on, 234; 
Johnson on language of, xxxix, 
212; Macaulay on,^ xxvii, 389; 
Montaigne on, xxjyi, 91; novels 
of, ,.xiii, 66; Sainte-Beuve on, 
xxxii, 137; Sidney on, xxvii, 9 
Bochartus, on Virgil, xiii, 36 
Bodleian Library, Emerson on, v, 

^ 434-5 

Body, Browne on the, iii, 302 (37); 
Descartes on the, xxxiv, 45-6; 
Epictetus on care of the, ii, 160 
(118), 176 (173), 178 (178); 
Goethe on beauty of, xix, 393-4; 
Hindu doctrine of soul and, xlv, 
862, 863, 864; M. Aurelius on the, 
ii, 200 (2), 207 (3), 212 (16), 253 
(60), 259 (21); Montaigne on 
mind and, xxxii, 57; More on 
pleasures of the, _ xxxvi, 213-1^, 
215; Pascal on mind and, xlviii, 
31; Pascal on, after death, 343; 
Paul, St., on the, xlv, 508 (15, 
19-20); Penn on the, i, 337 (2); 
Socrates on the, ii, 55 

Body of Liberties, The, xliii, 70-89 

Boece (see Boetius) 

Boethius, Anicius (see Boetius) 

Boethius, Hector, on the Scotch, 
xxxv, 286 

Boetie, Stephen de la, Montaigne 
and, xxxii, 113, 115; Montaigne 
on, 74-5, 80-1, 86-8 

Boetius, Anicius Manllus, birth and 
death of, xx, 330 notes 24, 25; 
Chaucer on, xl, 46, 47; in Dante's 
Paradise, xx, 330; Sidney on, 
xxvii, 26, 28 

Boeotia, Newman on, xxviii, 42 

Bohemia, blind king of (see John 
of Bohemia) 

Boians, Tacitus on the, xxxin, 11 1, 
119 



Boiardo, Dryden on, xiii, 13 ^ 
Boileau, Addison and,^ xxvii, 167; 
on Christianity, xxxii, 167; enco- 
miums and censures of, xxxiv, 
148; on human reason, 145-6; on 
poetry, xxxixr 408; Sainte-Beuve 
on, xxxii, 128, 136 
Boils (see Furuncles) 
Bolabola, island of, xxix, 494, 499 
Bolas, use of, in S. America, xxix, 

55, 123 
Boldness, Bacon on, iii, 33-4; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 47 (5); Penn on, 
i, 351 (119); of saints and wicked 
men, vii, 234 (3) 
Boleyn, Anne (see Bullen) 
Bolingbroke, Lord, on Addison's 
Ca^f?^ xxvii, 177; on bishops, xxxiv, 
81; Burke on, xxiv, 237, 274; 
lines to, xxvii, 288; on Marl- 
borough, xxxiv, 100; Pope to, xl, 
417-18, 450-1; Swift and, xxviii, 
15; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 159 
Bollandists, the, xxxii, 189 note 
Bologna, Antonio, in Duchess op 

Malfi (see Antonio) 
Bologna, Giovan, xxxi, 438 note 
Bologna, II (see Primaticcio) 
Bologna Phials, xxx, 29 note 10 
Bombast, defined by Burke, xxiv, 

^39 
Bona Dea, worship of, xii, 281 
Bonaparte (see Napoleon) 
Bonatti, Guido, xx, 86 note 7 
Bonaventura, Father, in The Be- 
trothed, xxi, 137 
Bond, Thomas, Franklin on, i, 121. 

2, 143-4 , ^ , , 

Bones, used as fuel, xxix, 209 
Bonie Dundee, vi, 268-9 
BoNiE Jean, vi, 494-6 
Bonie Lad that s Far Awa, vI, 

320-1 
Bonie Lass of Albany, vi, 299-300 
Bonie Moor-Hen, The, vi, 274 
Bonie Peg-a-Ramsay, vi, 549 
Bonie Peggy Alison, vi, 31-2 
Bonie Was Yon Rosy Brier, vi, 576 
Bonie Wee Thing, vi, 428 
Boniface, Archbishop, xx, 245 note 4 
Boniface VIII, Pope, arrest and 
death of, xx, 230 note 15; Dante 
on, 80 note, 281 note 15, 365 note 
II, 400 note 3, 411 note 6, 416 
note 8; death of, xxxi, 144 note 
2; Ghino di Tacco and, xx, 168 
note 2; Montefeltro and, 11 4- 15 
notes 
Bonnell, Captain, anecdote of Lord 

Loudoun, i, 160-1 
Bonnie Banks o' Fordie, xl, 58-9 
Bonnie George Campbell xl, ii5« 

16 
Bonnivard, Byron on, xli, 832 
Bonny Barbara Allan, xl, 69-70 
Bonny Dundee, xli, 770-2 
Booby, Darwin on the, xxix, 20 



GENERAL INDEX 



165 



Book, custom of saving by the, 

XXXV, 387 
Book-keeping (see Accounting) 
Book-Worms, The, vi, 2^^ 
Books, Montaigne's Essay on, xxxii, 

89-105 
Books, Bacon on, iii, 58; Browne 
on, 285-6, 289 (24) ; Carlyle on, 
XXV, 379, 381, 389-90; censorship 
of (see Censorship) ; Channing on, 
xxviii, 349-51; Confucius on, xliv, 
10 (9); Ecclesiastes on, 354 (12); 
Emerson on, v, 8-12, 97, 122, 183-4; 
Epictetus on, ii, 170 (145); 
Goethe on, xix, 28, 45-6; Heminge 
on fate of, xxxix, 155; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv 339-40; Hume on use 
of, xxxvii, 395 (9) ; Locke on, for 
children, 140-3; Milton on, iii, 
202-3, 210-12, 214; Mewman on 
education by, xxviii, 31-8; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 123 note 9, 417; Pliny 
on, ix, 244; prefaces of, xxxix, 3; 
Rousseau on, xxxiv, 303-4; Rus- 
kin on, xxviii, 99-117, 120-1, 
130-1, 141; Ruskin on, for girls, 
155-7; tested by durability, xxxix, 
218-19; transcripts of their times, 
fJ33-40» 460-1 (see also Read- 
ing) 
Boorde, Andrew, verses from, xxxv, 

304 note 
Bootes, constellation, xx, 417 note 
5; mentioned by Homer, xxii, 78 
Booth, M. L., translator of Pascal, 

xlviii 
Border Bai^i^ad, by Scott, xli, 764 
Boreas, Orithea and, xxvii, 284; 

Virgil on, xiii, 79, 140 
Borghild, wife of Sigmund, xlix, 

291, 295-6 
Borgia, Caesar, son of Pope Alex- 
ander, xxxvi, 15; cruelty of, 56; 
Countess of Forli and, 75; (juido 
Ubaldo and, 74; Macaulay on, 
xxvii, 408-9; Machiavelli on, 
xxxvi, 24-30; Oliverotto and, Z2t\ 
troops of, 48 
Borgia, LucRETiA, Lines on Hair 

OF, xli, 929 
Borgny, wife of Sigmund (see 

Borghild) 
Borgny, wife of Vilmund, xlix, 457-9 
Borgoignon, Nicolas, xxxiii, 263 

note 
Borgoo, the negroes of, v, 207i8 
Boric Acid, as antiseptic, xxxviii, 

400-1 
Born, Bertrand de, in Dante's Hell, 

XX, 120 note 
Borneil, Giraud de, xx, 255 note 3 
Bornoos, language of, v, 208 
Boron, Robert de, xxxv, 108 
Borromeo, Federigo, in The Be- 
trothed, xxi, 367-76; Abbondio 
and, 433-44; Lucia and, 413-18, 
432; in Milan famine, 477-9, 486; 



in plague, 526, 548-9, 552, 554-5; 
unnamed and, 377-88 

Borrow, George, and the Gypsies, v, 
448 

Borrowing, Emerson on, v, 99-100; 
Shakespeare on, xlvi, 102 

Bors, Sir, in The Holy Grail, at 
the abbey, xxxv, 18 1-2; birds, 
omen of, 172, 18 1-2; at Carbonek 
Castle, 218-21; at Carteloise 
Castle, 200-2; chastity of, 168, 
172; Galahad and, no, 114, 190- 
I, 218, 225; gentlewoman and, 
176-7; hermit and, 171-2; lady's 
champion, 172-5; Lancelot and, 
22()\ Lionel and, 176, 183-7; P^^' 
civale and, 187-8, 225-6; at Sar- 
ras, 223-4; in ship of Faith, 192, 
200; temptation of, 178-81; visions 
of, 173-4, 182; wounded knight 
rescued b;^, 207 

Borsiere, (juglielmo, xx, 69 and 
note 4 

Bortolo, in The Betrothed (see 
Castagneri), xxi 

Bos, Abbe du, on painting and 
poetry, xxiv, 54 

Bosanquet, F. C. T., reviser of 
Pliny, ix 

Bosola, Daniel de, in Duchess of 
Malfi, Antonio and, xlvii, 740, 
746-8, 810-11; Cardinal and, 722- 
3, 799-800, 805-6, 812-14; Cas- 
truccio and, 737-8; death of, 815; 
Delio and, 769; Duchess and, 
727-8, 739, 741-2, 744, 762-3, 764- 
7, 773-4, 775-6, 777-8o, 785-9, 
792-3; Ferdinand and, 728-30, 
756-7, 769, 776-7, 780-1, 789-9^, 
797-8, 814; Julia and, 800-2; old 
lady and, 738-9, 743-4 . 

Bosquet, M., on cirripedes, xi, 

357 
Bossu, Le, epic code of, xxxix, 405; 

on heroes of poetry, xiii, 24 
Bossuet, on Cromwell, xxxix, 396; 

Sainte-Beuve, History of, xxxii, 

131-2; Taine on, xxxix, 452 
Bostock, Mr., Walton on, xv, 414, 

422-3 
Boston Hymn, xlii, 13 13-16 
Boston News-Letter, Franklin on, 

i, 20 
Boswell, James, remarks on Life 

of Johnson, by, xxvii, 164; Burns 

on, vi, 327 note i; Thackeray on, 

xxviii, 7 
Boswell, Robert Bruce, translator 

of Ph^dra, xxvi, 123 
Botallus, on circulation of blood, 

xxxviii, 98 
Botany, Emerson on science of, y, 

307; Locke on study of, xxxvii, 

157 
Botany Bay, morality of children 

of, V, 255 
Botero, Giovanni, xxi, 467 



166 



GENERAL INDEX 



Botofogo Bay, Darwin on, xxix, 

36-7 
BoTTi^E, A, AND Friend, vi, 2^7 
Bouchardat, M., on fermentation, 

xxxviii, 368 
Bougainville, on the Fuegians, xxix, 

244 
Boulders, in the Azores, xi, 410; 

erratic, Darwin on, xxix, 201, 

264; Helmholtz on, xxx, 237-41 
Boullogne, Jean, xxxi, 438 note 
Bouncer, Bet, in She Stoops to 

Conquer, xviii, 211, 231 
Bounties, Smith, Adam, on, x, 347, 

392-406, 426-9, 444 
Bountiful, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 235 
Bounty, and frugality, i, 344; St. 

Paul on, xlv, 538 (6-7) 
Bourbon, Cardinal de, brother of 

Charles IX, xxxviii, 50 
Bourbon, Constable of, his attack 

on Rome, xxxi, 71-2; death, 72-3 

note 4 
Bourbon, Francis de, xxxi, 347 note; 

and Cellini, 347-8 
Bourdeaux, Smith on situation of, 

X, 276 
Bourdillon, M. de, xxxviii, 46 
Bourges, surrender of, xxxviii, 48-9 
Bourne, Richard, xliii, 148 
Boutron, M., on fermentation, 

xxxviii, 369-70 
Bowie, Alexander, reviser of Har- 
vey, xxxviii, 63 
Bowles, William Lisle, Dover 

Cliffs, xli, 697-8 
Bowring, Sir John, xxv, 62-3, 64, 

86-7 
Bowyer, Sir William, and Dryden, 

xiii, 431 
Boyardo, Matthew, Cervantes on, 

xiv, 53 
Boyd, Rev. Wm., Burns on, vi, 173 

note 8 
Boyhood, Augustine, St., on, vii, 

13; Emerson on, v, 65; Words- 
worth on, xli, 611 
Boyle, Robert Johnson on, xxxix, 

242 
Boynton, Sir Edward, house of, v, 

414 
Braccio, FortebraccI, Machiavelli on, 

xxxvi, 44, 46 
Brachs, defined, xx, 429 
Brackenburg, in Egmont, xix, 260- 

I, 264, 285, 3ii-i5» 318-21^ 
Brackley, Lord, in Comus, iv, 46 
Brackley, The Baron of, xl, 120- 

123 
Bracy, the bard in Christabel, xli, 

736, 739-4i» 744 
Bradamant, xxxii, 52 note 44 
Braddock, Gen., Franklin on, 1, 

134-42 
Braddock*s defeat, 1, 141 
Bradford, Andrew, Franklin with, 



i, 23, 27, 28; paper of, ^2, 63; 

as postmaster, 67, 102 
Bradford, William, i, 23, 27-8 
Bradlaugh, Charles, and Mill, xxv, 

198 
Bradley, James, astronomer, xxx, 

333-4 
Bradshaw, John, Milton on, v, 202 
Bradwardine, Bishop, Chaucer on, 

xl, 46; Newman on, xxviii, 48 
Braes o' Killiecrankie, vi, 381 
Braes of Yarrow, by Hamilton, xli, 

586-9 
Braes of Yarrow, by Logan, xli, 

512-1^ 
Brage, Norse god, v, 404 
Bragging, Emerson on, v, 405 
Brahma, Hindu god, xlv, 814, 833, 

835-56, 881-3 
Brahma, Emerson's, xlii, 1294 
Brahma Sahampati, xlv, 737-9 
Brahman, Budciha on qualities of a, 

xlv, 641; virtues of a, 880 
Brahmins, Emerson on the, v, 185 
Brain,^ Berkeley on the, xxxvii, 243- 

4; in birds, xxxviii, 141-2; Har- 
vey on the, 105; Pascal on the, 

xlviii, 25 (70) 
Bramador, hill of, xxix, 382 
Bramber, Nicholas, xxxv, 80 and 

note 
Bramimonde, Queen, xlix, 119, 195, 

196, 197, 207 
Bran Galed, horn of, xxxii, 152 
Branchiae, Darwin on, xi, 196-7 
Brand, Bishop, xliii, 21 
Brandabarbaray, of Boliche, xiv, 147 
Brandan, St., Renan on legend of, 

xxxii, 149, 183-5; and Judas, 154 
Brandebourg, Marquis of, at Metz, 

xxxviii, 32 
Brander, in Faust, xix, 80-94 ^ 
Brandini, Giovanbattista, xxxi, 427 
Branstock, xlix, 278, 279 
Brasidas, quoted, xxxiv, 220 
Bratius, on hounds,^ xxxv, 369 
Brava Island, xxxiii, 211 
Bravery, Confucius on exterior, 

xliv, 61 (12); fable of, at a dis- 
tance, xvii, 16-17 
Braving Angry Winter's Storms, 

vi, 304 
Bravoes, in Lombardy, xxi, 10-13 
Braw Lads o' Galea Water, vi, 481 
Braw Wooer, The, vi, 574 
Brawn, Harrison on, xxxv, 349-51 
Braxfield, Lord, story of, xxv, 445-6 
Brazil, Darwin on, xxix, 22-4, 29-48, 

521-6; Francis Pretty on, xxxiii, 

211-13 
Bread, Locke on eating of, xxxvn, 

17-18, 19; price of, compared with 

meat, x, 157-8, 160-1; wheat and 

oatmeal, compared, 171 
Breadalbane, Burns on district of, 

vi, 291-2 
Breadalbane, Earl of, vi, 215 not© 



GENERAL INDEX 



167 



Break, Break, Break, xlii, 1006 
Breathing (see Respiration) 
Breca, and Beowulf, xlix, 19-20 
Bredi, the thrall, xlix, 275-6^ 
Breeding, close, diminishes vigor, xi, 
110, 140, 318; cross (see Inter- 
crosses) 
Brefeld, Oscar, on fermentation, 

xxxviii, 329-31, 361-2 
Breintnal, Joseph, i, 60, 61, 62, 66 
Bremen Town Musicians, The, 

xvii, 120-3 
Brennus, reference to, xx, 308 
3reton, Nicholas, Phillida and 

CoRiDON, xl, 199 
Bretons (see Celtic Races) 
3reuer, Thomas, cow of, xxxv, 343 
Brevity, **the soul of .wit," xlvi, 
119; in speech and writing, xxxii, 
45-6 
Brewing, in old England, xxxv, 298- 

300 
Briareus, in Dante's Hell, xx, 13 1-2, 
193; Jupiter and, iii, 42; Milton 
on, iv, 95; Virgil on, xiii, 221 
(see also ^gseon) 
Briar-Rose, Little, story of, xvii, 

146-9 
Bribery, in elections, Plutarch on, 
xii, 165; a ground of impeach- 
ment, xliii, 202 (4) ; Penn on, i, 

371 (384) ,.. 

Bridge, The, xln, 1328-9 

Bridge of Sighs, by Hood, xli, 932- 
5; Poe on, xxviii, 400-1 

Bridges, expense of maintaining, x, 
474-7; made of hide, xxix, 279-80 

Bridgewater, Earl of, president of 
Wales, iv, 47 

Bright, John, on American Civil 
War, XXV, 172; on woman suf- 
frage, 194 

Bright,^ Mynors, Stevenson on, 
xxviii, 205 

Brigs of Ayr, The, vi, 242-8 

Brisk, Mr., in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 233-4 

Brissac, ^ M. de, at Perpignan, 
xxxviii, 15-16 

Brissot, Jean Pierre, Burke on, xxiv, 
401 

Britain, Caesar in, xii, 294-5; plant- 
ed by descendant of -^neas, xiii, 
20 

British Constitution, Burke on the, 
xxiv, 395-6; Lowell on the, xxviii, 
470; James Mill on, xxv, 63-4: 
representation under, xxiv, 335- 
6; Ruskin on, xxviii, 135 

Britomartis, Spenser's, xxxix, 66, 68 

Britons, agriculture of the, xxxv, 
324; boats of the, 380; food of 
the, 285; houses of the, 308; mir- 
rors among, 340; productions of 
the, 332; use of woad by the, 331 

Brittany, Arthurian legends in, 
xxxii, 169-70; Christianity in. 



178, 179, 180-2, 183 note 26, 189; 

English descent on, xxxviii, 13- 

14; Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 9-10; 

Pare on pastimes in, xxxviii, 14- 

15; Renan on, xxxii, 143, 147 
Broca, Paul, objections to natural 

selection, xi, 222 
Brockden, the scrivener, i, 69, 78 
Brocket, defined, xxxv, 361 
Brodie, Sir Benjamin, on puerperal 

fever, xxxviii, 260 
Brome, Alexander, The Resolve, xl, 

378 , ... 

Bromios, Bacchus called, vin, 116, 

352, 353 . . , . , r 

Bronn, Heinrich, on geological for- 
mations, xi, 347, 364; objections 
to natural selection, 220-2 
Bronte, Emily, poems by, xlii, 1156-7 
Bronze-casting, Cellini's method of, 

xxxi, 369 note i, 392-7 
Bronzino, II (see Allori) 
Brooke, Christopher, and Dr. Donne, 

XV, 332 
Brooke, Lord, Emerson on, v, 427; 
Hazlitt on, xxvii, 291; Milton on, 
iii, 238-9; tombstone of, v, 477 
Brooke, Samuel, xv, S3^* 362 
Brosse, Peter de la, xx, 168 note 7 
Brothels, Luther on, xxxvi, 350 
Brotherliness, Burns on, vi, 88, 263^ 
389, 547; Bacon on emulation be- 
tween, iii, 21 
Brothers, Browning on, and sisters, 

xviii, 380 
Brothers, Montaigne on, xxxii, 76 
Brothers of Death, xxi, 281 note 
Brougham, Lord, and Edinburgh 
Re^new, xxvii, 236; in Edinburgh 
society, xxv, 84; on English 
clergy, v, 447; Mill and, xxv, 62; 
on Milton s Satan, xxviii, 208; 
and the Times, v, 466 
Broughton, Hugh, xlvii, 555 note, 

602 note 2 
Brouncker, Lord, Voltaire on, 

xxxiv, 127 
Broune, Adam, almoner to Edward 

Second, xxxv, 402 
Brown, Dr., and Franklin, i, 24-25 
Brown, John, Mill on, xxv, 171 and 

note 
Brown, Lieut., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

359. 373. 374, 

Brown, Richard, xxni, mate of the 
"Alert." 422 

Brown, Robert, on classification, xi, 
453-4 

Brown, Thomas Edward, My Gar- 
den, xlii, 1155 

Browne, Maurice, xxxiii, 282, 295, 
299 

Browne, Sir Thomas, on the Bible, 
iii, 288 (23); Catholic Church, 
attitude toward, 266 (3), 268 (5); 
charity of, 325-6, 328-31, 345; 
Christianity of, 265 (i); on 



168 



GENERAL INDEX 



Church of England, 268 (5); con- 
tentment, dreams, 341-3; on death, 
303-4» 308; on death and burial, 
his own, 305-6; desires of, 347; 
disease hated by, 338-9; Emerson 
on, V, 450; on faith and reason, 
iii, 284-7; on the future life, 310- 
18; on God, 274-7, 293; heresies 
of, 269-71 ; Lamb on, xxvii, 282- 
3; learning and lack of pride, 
iii» 33^1 on length of life, 306-8; 
sketch of life and works, 262; 
love ot the beautiful and harmoni- 
ous, 338; love of mysteries and 
miracles, 272 (9, 10); on the 
medical profession, 339; his pray- 
ers, 333-4, 343-4; a Protestant, 
265 (2); on providence, 279; Re- 
LiGio Medici, 263-347; on religious 
disputes, 269; on salvation, 319- 
23; on spirits, 294-8, 302-3; on 
study ot nature, 277-9; sympathy 
of, with all things, 324; tender- 
ness and love of frienas, 332-3; 
toleration of, 268 (6) ; at variance 
only with himself, 334-5* 339*40 

Browne, William, On Countess of 
Pembroke, xl, 343 

Brownell, George, i, 10 

Brownhill Inn, Epigram at, vi, 

437 

Browning, Robert, sketch of life 
and works, xviii, 356; A Blot in 
THE 'Scutcheon 357-400; short 
Poems by, xlii, 1106-55; Sonnet 
ON, by Landor, xli, 926 

Browning, Elizabeth Barrett, lines 
to, by Robert Browning, xlii, 
1137-43; poems by, xli, 948-70 

Brown-Sequard, on mutilations, xi, 
148 

Bruar Water, Petition of, vi, 

^93-5 . _ 

Bruce, Michael, To the Cuckoo, 

^^^' 583-4 
Bruce, Robert, Burns on, vi, 396, 

502-3, 117 note 4 
Bruchsal, Count von, in Minna von 

Barnhelm, xxvi, 306, 342, 364-5 
Bructerians, Tacitus on the, xxxlii, 

Brummel, simplicity of, v, 386 
Brunelleschi, Agnello, xx, 106 and 

note 
Rrunet, Gustave, xxxii, iii 
Brunetto Latini, xxviii, 76 
Brunetto, Ser, in Dante's Hell, xx, 

64-6 
Brunswick, House of, Burke on 

title of, xxiv, 17 1-3 
Bruttius, Cicero the Younger on, 

ix, 182 
Brutus, Decimus (Albinus), jxii, 327- 

8, 329, 342; Bacon on, iii, 70-1; 

Cicero on, ix, 9, 186, 187 
Brutus, Lucius Junius, first Roman 

tribune, xii, 157, 163, 325; Cor- 



neille on sons of, xxvi, 118; Dante 
on, XX, 20; death of, ix, 73; Vir- 
gil on, xiii, 239 

Brutus, Marcus, Caesar and, xii, 314, 
321, 325-6, 330-1, 343-4; ix, 170, 
178; after Caesar's death, xii, 262, 
331, 344; Caesar's ghost and, 332- 
3; iii, 96; Cicero and, xii, 264, 
272; xxxii, 99; Cicero on his rela- 
tions with, ix, 148-50; letter to, 
184-9; in Dante's Hell, xx, 144 
and note i ; death and burial, xii, 
350; descent of, 325; Hobbes on 
vision of, xxxiv, 328-9; Lepidus 
and, xii, 344; loans of, x, 99-100; 
at Marseilles, xx, 221 note 7; 
Montaigne on, xxxii, 98; at 
Philippi, xii, 349-50; on virtue, 
V, 1 30-1 

Bruyere, La, Burke on, xxiv, 383 
note; Hume on, xxxvii, 307; on 
Manners, xxvii, 173, 174; Sainte- 
Beuve on, xxxii, 136 

Bryant, William Cullen, poems by, 
xlii, 1262-73; June of, Poe on, 
xxviii, 393-4 

Brydone, Patrick, vi, 184 note 9 

Brynhild, ending of, xlix, 357-9, 
405-12, 420-1; grief of, 342-7, 397- 
8, 404-5; Gudrun and, 332-3, 339- 
42; Gunnar and, 339, 403-4; at 
Hindfell, 317, 318; Morris on, 
27^; name of, reason of, 327; Odd- 
run on, 460-1; Sigurd and, 319- 
26, 328-30, 347-8, 350, 351-2, 398, 
402-3, 418-19; wooing of, 336-9» 
396-7, 415-16, 421; remarks on 
story of, 267 

Brynhild, Fragments of Lay of, 
xlix, 417-21; remarks on, 267-8 

Brynhild, The Hell-Ride of, xlix, 
413-16; remarks on, 268 

Bryso, Dante on, xx, 344 

Bubastis, the Egyptian Artemis, 
xxxiii, 81 

Bubastis, city of, xxxiii, 33-4, 37; 
temple of Artemis at, 70-1 

Bubble, Madam, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 310-13 

Bubonax, death of, xxvii, 55 

Buch, Captal de, xxxv, 36, 42, 48, 
51, 60 

Buchanan, George, and Montaigne, 
xxxii, 3, 68; Sidney on tragedies 
of, xxvii, 49 

Buchanan, Robert W., Liz by, xlii, 
1247 

Buchheim, C. A., translator of 
Luther, xxxvi, 2 

Buck, defined, xxxv, 361 

Buckingham, Dukes of (see Staf- 
ford, Villiers) 

Buckingham, Earl of, in Tyler's 
Rebellion, xxxv, 68 

Buckwheat, The, story of, xvii, 
377-8 

Bucolic poets, Shelley on, xxvu, 359 



GENERAL INDEX 



169 



Buddha, on animals, xlv, 722-5; at- 
tainment of Buddhaship, 627-38; 
birth of, 617-26; daily habits, 643- 
6; death, 647-61; first resolutions 
to strive for Buddhaship, 591 note 
I ; on indifference, 728 ; life of 
the, 588; Maltmkyaputta sermon 
of, 662-7; on mendicant ideal, 
764-6; Middle Doctrine of, 677- 
81; Noble-craving Sermon, 729- 
46; Pasenadi and, 691-2; story of 
Hare-Mark on Moon, 712-16; story 
of Husl>and-honorer, 708-11; on 
the truth, 673; Visakha and, 770- 
I, 786-8, 791, 793-4* 796-8; on way 
of purity, 717 

Buddha uproar, xlv, 617 

Buddhism, Taine on, xxxiz, 449, 

457 . ^ . 

Buddhist priests, ordination of, xlv, 

756-63 
Buddhist \\ ritings, xlv, 587-798 
Budli, King, xlix, 331, 336, 339, 342 
Budlungs, names of the, xlix, 270-1 
Buenos Ayres, Darwin on, xxix, 

133-4; revolution in, 153-4 
Bunon, George Louis, on classics, 
xxxii, 131-2; on creative force of 
America, xxix, 187-8; on evolu- 
tion, xi, 6, 9; Franklin and, i, 
154; Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 128 
Buford, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 
351 

BUFFOOW AND COUKTRTMAM, fable of, 

xvii, 45 
Bugiardini, Giuliano, xxxi, 89 note 
Buhel, Burkhart am, in Wilhelx 

Tell, xxvi, 401, 410 
Building, Bacon's Essay on, iii, 

114-7 
Building materials, demand for, x, 

i74-S» 186; supply of, does not 

limit population, 174; value of, 

« ^73-4 

Building of the Ship, xlii, 133-43 

Building rent, by what determined, 

X, 510-11 
Buildings, as capital, x, 228 
Bujamonti, Giovanni, xx, 73 note y 
Bulgarians, Freeman on the, xxviii, 

241-2, 278 
Bulimus, Darwin on the, xxix, 368 
Bull, why more sublime than ox, 

xxiv, 58 
Bull, Bishop, on angels, xx, 407 

note 5 
Bull ajtd Ass, story of, xvi, 12-13 
Bull feasts, xlix, 214-15 
Bullen, Anne, Henry Ylll and, 

xxxvi, 107, 116, 119; Thomas 

More and, 127, 128 
Buller, Charles, Carlyle and, xxv, 

Z2p; Mill on, 70, 85, 140, 126, 128 
Bullies, Bums on, vi, 234 
Bullion, movements of, x, 341 
Bullock, J. C, editor of Adam 

Smith, X 



Bulls, Papal, Luther on, xxxvi, 

328-9 
Bulwer Lytton, Emerson on, v, 457 
Bumper, Sir Harry, in School for 

Scandal, xviii, 147-9 
Bunau-Varilla, Philippe, xliii, 479 
Bundle of Sticks, fable of, xvii, 41 
Banyan, John, sketch of life and 
works of, XV, 3-4; Franklin on, i, 
14, 23; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 289; 
Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 5-324; 
Thoreau on, xxviii, 433 
Buonaccortj, Giuliano, xxxi, 205 

note 3, 366 
Buonacossi, Pinamonte, xx, 85 note 5 
Buonaj>arte, Lucien, on Macpherson, 

xxxix, 345 
Buonaparte, Napoleon (see Napo- 
leon) 
Buonarroti (see Michelangelo) 
Buona Ventura, St., in Dante's Para- 
dise, XX, 336-40; sketch of, 336 
note 4 
Buondelmonte, Dante on, xx, 357; 
murder of, 119 note 11, 357 note 

31 
Buoso of Cremona, xx, 136 note g 
Burchell, on size of animals and 
vegetation, xxix, 99-100; on os- 
triches, 103; on S. African imple- 
ment, 284-5 
Biirger, Gottfried August, on 
Percy's Reliques, xxxix, 342, 343- 
4; Wordsworth on, 343 
Burgh, Benet, xxxix, 16 
Burghers, in Faust, xix, 37-8 
Burghersh, Bartholomew de, xxxv, 

23» 36, 42, 52, 56 
Burgoync, Gen., Bums on, vi, 55 
Burgundy, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 

9-10 
Burgundy, Duke of, in Lear, xlvi, 

204-5, 209, 210 
Burials, in ancient Egypt, xxxiii, 
42-4; in New Atlantis, iii, 182 
Burians. Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 120 
Burke, Edmund, aims and character 
of, xxiv, 396-7, 423-5 ; Bagehot on 
party spirit of, xxviii, 193; Burns 
on, vi, 55; conservatism of, xxiv, 
396; on English lawyers, v, 431; 
Fox and, 219-20; author of war 
with France, xxiv, 442-3; Os' 
French Re\'olutiox, 149-397; 
generalizations of, v, 456, 458; 
Goldsmith on, xli, 518; Keppel 
and, xxiv, 437-8; Letter to a 
Noble Lord, 399-443; on liberty, 
156-7; life and works, sketch of, 
5h6, 28, 150, 400; love of order, 
150; on the nobility, 418-19; Pay- 
Office and Establishment Acts, 
406-14; pension of, 400, 403-4» 
422-^; on pensions, 416-18; on his 
services, 415-16; Ox the Sublime 
AND Beautiful, 7-148; On Taste, 
11-26 



170 



GENERAL INDEX 



Burke, Gen., Mill and, xxv, 186 
Burke, Richard, death of, xxiv, 400; 

Edmund Burke on, 426-7 
Burlador, to Sancho Panza, xiv, 541 
Burleigh, Lord, to his son on ex- 
penses, V, 409 
Burlesque, Fielding on the, xxxix, 

185-7 
Burn, Dr., on settlement laws, x, 

146, 148-9; on wages, 150 
Burnel, the Asse, xl, 48 
Burnes, William, father of Robert 

Burns, vi, 15; epitaph on, 54 
Burnet, Bishop, History of Own 
Time, xxv, 11; on French clergy, 
xxiv, 2^7-8 
Burnet, Gov., and Franklin, i, 34, 62 
Burnet, Miss, Elegy cN", vi, 419 
Burney, Martin, in Hazlitt's discus- 
sion, xxvii, 286, 292 
Burning Babe, The, xl, 222 
Burns, John, of Gettysburg, xliii, 

352 
Burns, Miss, Lines on, vi, 278 
Burns, Robert, Poems and Songs, 
vi, 1-609; Arnold on, xxviii, yj^ 
79, 84-90; daughter of, vi, 59- 
60; death, lines on his own, 64; 
first book of, 2^2; elegy on him- 
self, 99; Emerson on, v, 22, 127, 
315; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 292-3,; 
Jacobitism of, vi, 296 note; life 
and works, sketch of, 15-18; pos- 
sessions, inventory of, 194-6; wife 
of (see Armour, Jean) 
Burton, Sir Richard F., on Arabian 
Nights, xvi, 3; on deserts, xxviii, 
424 
Burton, Robert, death of , v, 396 
Busbacca, the courier, xxxi, 199-203 
BusHBY, John, Lines on, vi, 520 
Bushby, Mr. of New Zealand, xxix, 
„ 445-6 

Business, character in, v, ip3-4 
Confucius on, xliv, 5 (5); Emer 
son on the ways of, v, 47-8; hon 
esty in, iii, 8-9; love and, 29; xl 
319; method in, i, 372-3 (403) 
Penn on qualities for, 358^ (210 
12); suspicion bad in, iii, 86 
three parts of, 67; time the meas 
ure or, 66; Woolman on, i, 188 
204 and note, 206, 245, 285, 311 
312, 318-19; youth and age in, iii, 

IIO-I I 

Busirane, Spenser's, xxxix, 68 
Busiris, city of, xxxiii, 33, 34 
Busiris and his Memphian cavalry, 

iv, 98 
Busk, Mr., on avicularia, xi, 248 
Buslidius, Hieronymus, xxxvi, 255 
Busy-bodies, commonly envious, iii, 

24 
Butcher, S. H., translator of Homer, 

xxii 
Butchers, excluded from juries, 

xxxvii, 108 



Butes, and Dares, xiii, 194; death 

of, 385-6, 407 

Buthrescas, in Utopia, xxxvi, 244 

Buti, Cecchino, xxxi, 443, 444 

Butler, Joseph, Bishop, Hazlitt on, 
xxvii, 291; on meaning of "nat- 
ural,'* xi, i; Mill on Analogy of 
Religion of, xxv, 30 

Butler, Samuel, Emerson on Hudi- 
bras of, v, 450; Voltaire on 
Hudibras of, xxxiv, 150-1 

Buto, city of, xxxiii, 33, 37; oracle 
of, 42, 80 

Butterflies, in Brazil, xxix, 43-4; 
dimorphism of, xi, 61; flocks of, 
at sea, xxix, 172; imitation by, 
xi, 465-7 

Butterfly, symbol of the soul, xx, 
188 note 

Button, coffee-house of, xxvii, lyo 

Button, Jemmy, xxix, 222-4, 233, 
234, 235-8, 241-2, 244-5 

Butyric acid, production of, xxxviii, 

T, 344. , 

Butyric fermentation, xxxviii, 345- 

56, 358 . 
Butyric vibrios, xxxviii, 343-4 
Buyck, in Egmont, xix, 247-53 
Buys, M., Dutch envoy, xxvii, 108 
Buzareingues, Giron de, on fertiliza- 
tion, xi, 325 
By-employments, Smith on, x, 124-6 
By-ends, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

103-11, 113, 281, 288 
Byron, Admiral John, on brutality 
of Fuegians, xxix, 231; on wolves 
in Falkland Islands, 208 
Byron, George Gordon, Lord, sketch 
of life and works, xviii, 402; 
Arnold on, xlii, 1181-2; Carlyle 
on, xxv, 360-1, 437, 442; Emerson 
on, V, 275, 450, 462; Goethe on, 
xxxii, 134; Hugo on, xxxix, 380; 
Manfred of, xviii, 403-44; Mill 
on, xxv, 96-7, 99; and Newstead 
Abbey, v, 414; Poe on lines by, 
xxviii, 401-2; poems by, xli, 803- 

37 
Byron and Goethe, by Mazzini, 

xxxii, 399-419 
Byzantium, Pliny on expenses of, 

ix, 402; Trajan on, 418 
Ca' the Yowes to the Knowes, by 

Burns, vi, 376-7, 530 
Ca' the Yowes to the Knowes, by 

Pagan, xli, 569 
Cabbage, fertilization of the, xi, 112 
Cabot, John, account of life, xliii, 

47 note; account of discoveries, 

47-50; Hayes on, xxxiii, 272, 

273 
Cabot, Sebastian, Hayes on, xxxiii, 

272, 27s 
Caccia of Asciano, xx, 124 and 

note 7 
Cacciagnida, in Dante's Paradise. 

XX, 350-362 



GENERAL INDEX 



173 



note i; Pliny on, 270; letters to, 

293, 294, 313 . , „ . 

Calumniators, punishment of, in 

Rome, ix, 310 note 8 
Calumny, Shakespeare on, xlvi, 137 

(see also Detraction) 
Calvary, Mount, xliv, 422 note 4 
Calventius, Cicero on, ix, 118 
Calvin, John, Dedication of the 

Institutes, xxxix, 29-54; Knox 

and, 61 note; life and works, 

sketch of, 29 note; Pope on, xl, 

445 ; Voltaire^ on, xxxiv, 85 ; 

Wyclif and, iii, 234 
Calvinism, doctrines of, xxxix, 51- 

4; in France, 29-50; Mill on, xxv, 

266-7 
Calvinists, debt of, to St. Augustine, 

vii, 4; in France, xxxix, 87-8; 

low ideas of human nature, xxviii, 

318; Pascal on, xlviii, 275 {777)^ 

306 
Calvinus, Domitlus, at Pharsalia, 

xii, 312 
Calvisius, correspondent of Pliny, 

letters to, ix, 238, 240, 285, 332, 

351 . 
Calvisius, dependent of Caesar, xii, 

381 
Calypso, Dido and,^ xxxix, 165; 

Odysseus and, xxii, 9, 10, 62-3, 

72-8, 100 
Cambalu, seat of Cathaian Can, iv, 

332 
Cambray, peace of, More at, xxxvl, 

109-10 
Cambrian Period, antiquity of the, 

xi, 359-60; absence of deposits 

before, 360-3 
Cambridge University, Emerson on, 

V, 432-3; Harrison on, xxxv, 391- 

400, 401 
Cambuscan, reference to, iv, 38 
Cambyses, expedition against Egypt, 

xxxiii, 5; Ladike and, 91; proph- 
ecy of, xlviii, 252 
Camden, the antiquary, and Ben 

Jonson, xlvii, 518 
Camera Apostolica, xxxi, 42 note 3 
Camerinus, Sulpicius, ix, 197 note 5 
Camers, son or Volsceus, xiii, 346 
Camertus, in the ^neid, xiii, 402 
Camiccione de Pazzi, xx, 135 and 

note 6 
Camilla, in the ^neid, xiii, 270-1, 

379-82, 384-90; Dante on, xx, 8, 

20 
Camilla, in story of Curious Im- 
pertinent, xiv, 323-63, 368-73 
Camillo, Cardinal, in The Cenci, at 

banquet, xviii, 290, 292; Beatrice 

and, 350, 352-3; Bernardo and, 

348-9; Count Cenci and, 281-5; 

with Giacomo, 299-300; at the 

trial, 339-44 
Camillus, Cicero om, ix, 167; Virgil 

on, xiii, 239 



Camino, Gaia da, xx, 214 note 10 
Camino, Gherardo da, xx, 213 note 

7, 214 
Camino, Riccardo da, death of, xx, 

323 note 13; Lombardo and, 211 

note; wife of, 179 note 4 
Camoens, Wordsworth on sonnets 

of, xii, 697 
Campana, mountain, xxix, 272-5 
Campanella, the physiognomist, xxiv, 

111-12 
Campaspe and Cupid, xl, 212 
Campbell,, Bonnie George^ a ballad, 

xl, 115-16 
Campbell, J., Freedom and Love, 

xli, 801-2 
Campbell, Thomas, poems by, xli, 

789-801 ; Mill on poems of, xxv, 

17; on English nooility, v, 429 
Campegines, Cardinal, xxxvi, 108, 

109^ 
Campion, Thomas, poems by, xl, 

290-4 
Campistron, Hugo on, xxxix, 378, 

383 

Can Ye Labour Lea, vi, 465 

Canace, reference to story of, iv, 38 

Canada, invited into the Confedera- 
tion, xliii, 176 

Canadian Boat-Song, by Moore, xli, 
840-1 

Canadian Boat-Song, by Wilson, 
xiii, 1105-6 

Canals, expense of, x, 474-7; Smith 
on, 156-7 

Canary Islands, Drake in the, xxxiii, 
241; Vespucci on, xli, 31 

Candace, queen of Ethiopia, xliv, 
447 (.27) 

Candle^ Chemical History of a, 
XXX, 89-178 

Candle-wood, xxx, 90 

Candolle, A. de, on alpine species, 
xi, 1 80-1; on Australian species, 
423; on insular plants, 432; on 
naturalization of plants, 125; on 
oaks, 66-7; on plants with large 
seed, 407; on struggle for life, 77 \ 
on wide-ranging plants, 69-70, 140, 
446; on winged seeds, 158 

Candor, Whitman on, xxxix, 424-5 

Candour, Mrs., ^ in School for 
Scandal, xviii, 116-21, 129-33, 
179-83 

Candy, Locke on, xxxvii, 22 

Canidia, Sidney on, xxvii, 22 

Canidius, lieutenant of Antony, xii, 
361; in Parthian war, 368-9; in 
war of Antony and Octavius, 379, 
385,. 386, 388, 389, 391 

Caninius, letter to, ix, 368 

Canneschi, Machiavelfi on the, 
xxxvi, 64 

Canning, George, and free trade, 
xxv, 67; on reform, v, 385 

Cannon, known to ancients, iii, 146 

Canobos, city of, viii, 185 



174 



GENERAL INDEX 



Canoes, Columbus on Indian, xliii, 

25; Vespucci on, 38 
Canon law, Luther on, xxxvi, 321, 

323y 339-40 
Canonization of saints, Mill on, 

XXV 22'\-A. 

Canst Thou Leave Me Thus, My 

Katie, vi, 544 . , ^ r 

Canterbury, Harrison on the See of, 

XXXV, 264; archbishops of, 265-6, 

268 
Canterbury, Archbishop of, in 

Edward II, xlvi, 12, 13, 14-16, 76 
Canterbury Tales, ^ Dryden on, 

xxviii, 77'^ y xxxix, 172, 173-5; 

proem to, 19-21; sources of, 167- 

8, 180 
Canterbury Tales, Prologue to, 

xl, 11-34; Dryden on, xxxix, 168, 

173; editorial remarks on, xl, 10 
Cantillon, on wages, x, 72 
Cantiron, John de, xxxv, 99 
Cantyman, the cacique, xxxiii, 

323 
Canuri, Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 

387 
Canute, buried in Winchester, v, 
480; Knighton Guild and, xxxv, 
330; laws against adultery, 385; 
suppers of, 302 
Capaneus, in Dante's Hell, xx, 60-1 
Cape de Verd Islands, Darwin on, 
xxix, 11-16; Pretty on,^ xxxiii, 
209-11; productions of, xi, 440 
Capernaum, Jesus on, xliv, 387(15) 
Capet, Hugh, Dante on, xx, 228-9; 

Raleigh on, xxxix, 87 
Capillary Attraction, Faraday on, 

XXX, 96-7 
Capilupus, Montaigne on, xxxii, 32 
Capital, accumulation of, x, 277-90; 
circulating and fixed, 224-6 (see 
also Circulating Capital, Fixed 
Capital) ; combinations of, to fix 
wages, 151; defined, 224; distri- 
bution of, in agriculture, manu- 
factures, and trade, 321-4; em- 
ployments of, 301-18; importance 
of increase of, 283-4; increase pf, 
effect on profits, wages, and in- 
terest, 294-5; investment of, 231; 
labor and, relations of, 6, 69-71, 
221-2, 272, 349; loans as, ^ 291; 
naturally seeks domestic indus- 
tries, 349-51; naturally seeks most 
profitable industries, 351; profits 
in relation to, 93, 99, 100; rev- 
enue and, as determining indus- 
try, 275-7; taxes on, 528-34; 
wages in relation to increase of, 

73-7 
Capital Causes, in ancient Athens, 
ii, 24; Bacon on mercy in, iii, 

138 
Capital Cities, industry in, x^ 276-7; 
virtual universities, xxviii, 37, 

38-9 



Capital Punishment, in old Massa 

chusetts, xliii, 77 (44, 47), 84-6; 

M[ore on, xxxvi, 158-9 
Capitalists, combinations of, x, 70-1; 

Smith on interests of, 218-20 
Capitation taxes, Smith on, x, 538- 

40; in U. S., xliii, 198 (4), 204 

Capitolo, the, xxxi, 247 note 
Capocchio, in Dante's Hell, xx, 

124-5, 126 
Capons, Harrison on, xxxv, 354 
Caprara, Cardinal, and Napoleon, v, 

216 
Caprice, Monody on, vi, 516-7 
Caprichioso, on Rozinante, xiv, 541 
Caprona, surrender of, xx, 89 note 
Captain Car, a ballad, xl, 105-8 
Captain! My Captain, xlii, 1496-7 
Captain's Lady, The, vi, 364-5 
Captiousness, Locke on, xxxvii, 131 
Captive Ribband, The, vi, 383 
Captive, story of the, xiv, 401-44 
Captivity in Babylon, Pascal on, 

xlviii, 216 (637, 639) 
Capuchins, Manzoni on the, xxi, 

52-3 
Capulets, Dante on the, xx, 171 
Capuri, Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 352 
Capybara, Darwin on the, xxix, 60 
Capys, author of the Capuan name, 

xiii, 331; Privernus and, 316-17; 

Trojan horse and, 104 
Car, Captain, a ballad, xl, 195-8 
Caracalla, as a charioteer, iii, 51; 

Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 67, 68-9, 71 
Caracaras, Darwin on, xxix, 66 
Caradoc, mantle of, xxxix, 22 
Caradosso, Messer, xxxi, 50 note, 64 
Carapana, district of, xxxiii, 336 

note 23, 382, 383-4 
Carapana, king of Emeria, xxxiii, 

342-3. 345 

Caratach, on valor, v, 81 

Carbo, Caius, Africanus and, ix, 
102; Gracchus and, 22, 23 

Carbolic Acid, as an antiseptic, 
xxxviii, 271-80, 400 

Carbon, Faraday on combustion of, 
XXX, 165-6, 168-70, 176-7; Helm- 
holtz on combustion of, 210-11; 
tests of presence of, 168 

Carbonek Castle, xxxv, 218-19 

Carbonic Acid, as gas, liquid, and 
solid, XXX, 13 note; composition 
of, 165-6; method of decomposing, 
166-8; heat generated by forma- 
tion of, 2 10- 11; made by burning 
candles, 157-0; natural sources of, 
159-60; produced in respiration, 
172, 175; used by plants, 175-6; 
properties and weight, 160-2; 
tested by lime-water, 158-9, 160-1 

Carbonic Acid Gas, fermentation in, 
xxxviii, 317-28 

Cardan, Emersoij on, v, 183; on 
dogs, xxxv, 375; on pigeons, 355; 



GENERAL INDEX 



175 



on rogues in England, 388-9; on 

sheep, 348 
Cardenio, in Don Quixote, xiv, 

213-18, 250-65, 278-9, 283-4, 374- 

84 
Cardin o'Tj the Spinnin o't, vi, 

563 
Cardinals, Luther on, xxxvi, 290-1 
Cardoness, lines on, vi, 533 
Cardoon, Darwin on the, xxix, 131- 

2, 161 
Cards, Locke on playing, xxxvii, 

188-9 
Care, Burns on, yi, 322; Cicero on 

freedom from, ix, 25; Cowper on, 

xli, 555; David on uses of, 503; 

Goethe on, xix, 31; Milton on, iv, 

87; pays not debt, xlvii, 480 
Careless, in School for Scandal, 
^ xviii, i47-5i» 154-9 
!I!arelessness in children, xxxvii, 51, 

^arentan, Edward III at, xxxv, 8-9; 

importance of, 11 note 
2!arew, Thomas, poems by, xl, 360-2 
rarey, Dr., Bishop of Exeter, xv, 

351 
I!arey, Henry, Sally in Our Alley, 

^arians in Egypt, xxxiii, 79-80, 84 

Caribbean Savages, lack of foresight 

in, xxxiv, 182; love among, 197 

[Caricatures, Fielding on, xxxix, 

^ 186-7 

Variola, in Duchess of Malfi, xlvii, 
727, 732, 736, 737, 745, 758-9, 
761-2, 767, 775, 781-2, 786, 787, 

^ 789 . 

^arlandrea, in The Betrothed, xxi, 

133 

ITarle an the King Come, vi, 367 

^arlile, Cristopher, with Drake, 
xxxiii, 235, 237, 238, 239, 240, 
242-6; at St. Domingo, 249; at 
Cartagena, 253, 254-5, 259; at St. 
Augustine, 263-4; remarks on his 
services, 262 

[Tarlile, Richard, prosecution of, 

XXV, 60 

Zarlo, San,^ body of, in Milan 
plague, xxi, 543-4; plague named 

^ after, 523 

rarlo Emanuele I, of Savoy, xxi, 

^ 454-6, 487 

^arloman, son of The Bald, xxxix, 

^86 

ICarloto, and Valdovinos, xiv, 46 

ICarlovingian Poetry, Renan on, 
xxxii, 165, 167 

[Tarlovingians, Raleigh on the, 
xxxix, 84-7 

[Tarlyle, Thomas, on America and 
Americans, v, 472; xxviii, 477; 
on art, v, 472; Characteristics, 
XXV, 333-71; first entry into Edin- 
burgh, 375; Emerson and, v, 3; 
Emerson on, 22, 327, 333-5, 459; 



Essay on Scott, xxv, 409-68; 
French Revolution, 140; heroism 
in, V, 126-7; Inaugural Address, 
XXV, 375-406; remarks on Inaugu- 
ral Address, 332; life and works, 
329-32; Life of Cromwell, xxxix, 
439; London Review and, xxv, 
133; Mill and, 87, 114-15; Mill 
on, 94, 106; reading of, v, 475; 
on unbelief, xxv, 108; Words- 
worth on, V, 337 

Carmagnola, and the Venetians, 
xxxvi, 45 

Carmenta, the prophetess, xiii, 283 

Carnal Policy, town of, xv, 21 

Carnal Sinners, in Dante's Hell, 
XX, 22-5, 48 

Carneades, an African, xxviii, 60; 
in Athens, x, 143; Manzoni on, 
xxi, 119; Montaigne on, xxxii, 
56; in Rome, iii, 204-5 

Carnesecchi, Piero, xxxi, 146 note 6 

Carnot, Sadi, on heat, xxx, 204-5 

Caro, Annibale, xxxi, loi note 5; 
Cellini and, 170, 173; Giovanni 
Gaddi and, loi note 4, 139; lan- 
guage of, xxxix, 212; translator 
of Virgil, xiii, 57-8 

Caroli River, xxxiii, 368, 370 

Caroline, Queen, and the Times, v, 
466 

Carpathian Wizard, Proteus called, 
iv, 69 

Carpenter, Chaucer's, xl, 21 

Carpentry, as recreation, xxxvii, 
186-7 

Carpi, Giacomo da, xxxi, 53 and 
note, 284 

Carpigna, Guido di, xx, 204 note 
16^ 

Carpino, Piano, x, 326-7 

Carpio, Bernardo del, Cervantes on 
romance of, xiv, 54, 516; Orlando 
and, 21, 238 

Carr, Sir Robert, Hugo on, xxxix, 
400 

Carranchas, Darwin on, xxix, 66-7 

Carrero, Don Pedro de I'uerto, xiv, 
407 

Carrion Hawks, of South America, 
xxix, 66-70; smelling-power of, 
198-200 

Carron Iron Works, Impromptu 
ON, vi, 289 

Carrying Trade, capital used in, x, 
313-4, 349-50; encouragement of 
the, 389-90; limits of, 317; a sign 
of wealth, 316 

Cartagena, Drake at, xxxiii, 148-50, 
161-6, 253-61, 268 

Carthage, Cato on, ix, 52; city of 
Dido, xiii, 88, 90; loved by Juno, 
76, 91; Machiavelli on destruction 
of, xxxvi, 19; mercenaries of, 44; 
More on mercenaries of, 154; 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 74, 119; Rome 



176 



GENERAL INDEX 



and, xiii, 78-9, 326; schools of, 
^ vii, 73-4 

Carthagena (see Cartagena) 
Carthusian Monks, Pascal on, xlviii, 

,, 175 (539) 

Carus, Metius, Regulus and, ix, 

197; Fannia and, 323 
Cartwright, William, On the Queen's 

Return, xl, 368 
Cary, Henry F., translator of Dante, 

XX 

Casa, Cecchino della, xxxi, 72 
Casa, Giovanni della, "book on man- 
ners" (Ga/a^^o), reference to, xvii, 
172, 174 
Casalodi, Alberto da, xx, 85 note 5 
Casarita, Darwin on the, xxix, 

107.8 
Casati, Father Felice, xxi, 532, 614- 

17 
Casaubon, Isaac, at Oxford, v, 433; 

on changes, xxxix, yy 
Casca, and Caesar, xii, 329 
Cascades, in glaciers, xxx, 2$2-2, 

246 
Casella, Dante and, xx, 153 and 

note 5; Milton on, iv, 83 
Cash Credits, in Scotland, x, 247-9, 

^55-7 
Casion, Mount, xxxiii, 81 
Casnero River, xxxiii, 37$ 
Caspians, Harrison on the, xxxv, 

372 

Cassada, Darwin on, xxix, 33 

Cassandane, wife of Cyrus, xxxiii, 5 

Cassander, Demades and, xii, 224 

Cassandra, in Agamemnon, viii, 43- 

55; Apollo and, 49; Corcebus 

and, xiii, 115, 117; aeath of, viii, 

60; Homer on death of, xxii, 162- 

3; prophecy of settlement of 

Italy, xiii, 137; Ruskin on, xxviii, 

146; Trojan horse and, xiii, iii 

Cassavi, a kind of bread, xxxiii, 

157, 247-8 
Cassero, Giacopo del, xx, 165 and 

note 5 
Cassero, Guido del, xx, 118 note 8 
Cassiodorus, John, on idleness, 

xxxix, 14 
Cassiopeia, reference to, iv, 35 
Cassipa, Lake, xxxiii, 371 
Cassipagotos, Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 

367, 369. 371 ^ 

Cassius, the consul, in Germany, 
xxxiii, 117 

Cassius, Quintus, xii, 338 

Cassius, Roman jurist, li, 169 (144); 
ix, 325 note 2 

Cassius Longinus, Csesar and, xii, 
321, 326, 329. 342; ix, 170; Cicero 
on, 153; conduct after Caesar's 
death, xii, 262, 344; in Dante's 
Hell, xx, 144 and note i; xiii, 
17; flight of, xii, 331-2; at Phi- 
lippic 349-5o» 332 . 

Castagneri, Bortolo, in The Be- 



trothed, xxi, 298-301, 452, 563-6, 

665 
Castalio, Locke on, xxxvii, 75 
Castara, Roses in Bosom of, xl, 
^ 257-8 

Castaway, The, xii, 553-5 
Castello, Guido da, xx, 213 and 

note 9 
Castes, Channing on, xxviii, 355-8; 

the four Hindu, xlv, 880 
Castiglione, Baldassare, the Courtier 

of, xxvii, 172 
Castiglione, Valeriano, xxi, 467-8 
Castle Gordon, vi, 297-8 
Castlemaine, Lady, xxviii, 306, 307 
Castor and Pollux, Homer on, xxii, 

159; in Rome, xii, 154; seamen's 

term, xxxiii, 305; Virgil on, xiii, 

215-16; worshipped in Germany, 

xxxiii, 120 
Castor-berry, cultivated in Egypt, 

xxxiii, 47 
Castoro, Francesco, xxxi, 16-17 
Castracani, Castruccio, xxvii, 418 
Castration, Harvey on, xxxviii, 116- 

^7 
Castriota, J^ohn, xlvii, 468 note 9 
Castro, Chili, Darwin on, xxix, 295 
Castruccio, in Duchess of Malfi, 

xlvii, 724-5, 737-8, 739, 748, 750, 

806 
Casualties, of feudal law, x, 529-30 
Caswell, E., translator of hymns, 

xlv, 562, 568 
Cat, "turning of the," iii, 62 
Cat, On a Favourite, xl, 473-5 
Cat and Fox, fable of, xvii, 26 
Cat-Maiden, fable of the, xvii, 44; 

Bacon on fable of, iii, 102 
Catabaptists, Calvin on, xxxix, 47 
Cataclysms, Darwin on, xi, 87, 109; 

Lyell on, xxxviii, 429, 439 
Catalano, in Dante's Hell, xx, 98-9 
Catamarans, described, xxiii, 26-7 
Catastrophes, Pope on, xl, 421-2; re- 
quire a comic element, xxviii, 

183-4 
Catastrophism (see Cataclysms) 
Catechising, Herbert on, xv, 411 
Catechumens, Pascal on, xlviii, 381 
Categorical Imperative, Kant on the, 

xxxii, 345, 350-63, 384-6, 392-3» 

395 
Categories (see Predicaments) 
Caterina, mistress of Cellini, xxxi, 

318-22, 326-30, 332 
Caterpillars, instincts of, xi, 263 
Gates, Thomas, xxxiii, 236, 237 
Catesbv, and Hastings, xxxix, 79 
Cathedrals, Burke on grandeur of 
old, xxiv, 66; Hugo on mediaeval, 
xxxix, 368; origin of, xxxv, 269 
Catherine of Aragon, queen of 
Henry VIII, xxxvi, 107-10, 119; 
xxxix, 90 
Catholic Church, Roman (see Ro- 
man Catholic Church) 



GENERAL INDEX 



179 



To8, 117, 124-s, 187, 189-91, 269- 
^2, 291, 301; mistress in Rome, 
II I ; monument to brother, 107-8; 
Moro's daughter and, 100-2; mu- 
sical training, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18, 
22.-2,i 40-1; musician to the Pope, 
41-3; "Narcissus" of, 388; necro- 
mancy, practised by, 133-7; "Nep- 
tune" of, 432-9» 441 » 445, 446, 
452-3; Pantasilea and, 58; Pas- 
cucci and, 209-10; Paul, Pope, 
and, 151-3, 165, 170-1, 186-8, 191- 
3, 211-12, 216-18, 222y 222, 22,2- 
3, 235-6, 237-8, 242, 249-50, 254, 
255-6, 260-1; Paulino, boy of, 41, 
43-4; "Perseus" of, 357 notes 3 
and 4, 363-4» 369-70, 373-4, 389, 
390-4, 395-9, 414, 416-20, 423-6, 
427-30; pilgrimage of thanksgiving, 
421-2; Pompeo and, 126, 131, 139, 
141, 148-50; Pompeo's daughter 
and, 153-5; Porzia Chigi and, 35- 
7, 38, 40, 47; prophecies of, 183-5, 
262\ pulpits for S. Maria del 
Fiore, 431; reliquary for Mantua, 
86; restorations by, 382-3, 388, 
389-90, 412-14; robbery of, at- 
tempted, 298-300; in Rome, 25-9, 
34-5, 1 81-3, 399-402; among Ro- 
man ruins, 51, 52; in sack of 
Rome, 71-83, 215-16; Salamanca, 
Bishop of, and, 35, 40, 43-7; in 
Siena, trouble with postmaster, 
274-8; in Siennese war, 409-11, 
422-3; sick with plague, 55-6; sis- 
ter of, 85, 278, 355-6; soldier of 
Ceri and, 48-9; son of, 380-1; 
Sonnet on His Life, 3; Sonnet 
TO Castellan, 255; Taine on me- 
moirs of, xxxix, 460; Torrigiani, 
relations with, xxxi, 23-5; Vasari 
and, 179-81; in Venice, 155-60, 
371-2 

Cellini, Cecchino, brother of Ben- 
venuto, xxxi, 15-16, 20, 87-8, 92 
note i; Bargello guard and, 102- 
5; death of, 106-/, duel and exile, 
16, 17; ijionument, 107-8 

Cellini, Cosa, xxxi, 85 

Cellini, Cristofano, xxxi, 8 

Cellini, Giovanfrancesco (see Cel- 
lini,^ Cecchino) ^ 

Cellini, Giovanni, father of Ben- 
venuto, xxxi, 8-14, 15, 17, 19, 20, 
21, 22-z, 33-4, 40-1, 43, 84-5; 
death of, 87; the Eight and, 40, 
84; the Medici and, 92 note; 
Pierino and, 18-20 

Cellini, Liperata, xxxi, 87-8, 174, 

355-6, 364 
Cellini, Luca, xxxi, 7 
Cellino, Fiorino da, xxxi, 6 
Celsus, Aulus Cornelius, Bacon on, 

iii, 86; Milton on, 253 note Z2>\ 

on care of stomach, ix, 371 note 
Celsus, governor of Cilicia, xxviii, 

62 



Celsus, the philosopher, Pascal on, 
xlviii, 198 (597), 274 (770) 

Celtchar, the Luin of, xlix, 253 

Celtic Races, Poetry of the, xxxii, 
141-191 

Celtic Races, Christianity and, xxxii, 
178-90; Emerson on the, v, 351, 
355; future of, xxxii, 190-1; 
Herodotus on the, xxxiii, 21; lit- 
erature of the, xxxii, 148-78; 
mythology of, 160-2; Renan on 
character of the, 143-50 

Cemetery Ridge, at Gettysburg, xliii, 
358 

Cenci, The, by Shelley, xviii, 281- 
353; editorial remarks on, 2T2\ 
story of the, 275-6 

Cenci, Beatrice, arrest of, xviii, 332* 
5; assassins and, 324-8; at ban- 
quet, 289-93; Bernardo and, 352- 
3; Camillo and, 282; Count Cenci 
and, 285, 296-7, 307-11, 319-23; 
condemned to death, 350-3; Gia- 
como and, 314-15; Lucretia and, 
294-6, 329-31; madness of, 303-7; 
Orsino and, 285-7, 307-11; por- 
trait of, by Guido, 279; in prison, 
344-8; Shelley on character of, 
279; trial of, 338-43 

Cenci, Bernardo, Beatrice and, xviii, 
294-6, 344-7, 352-3; Count Cenci 
and, 297, 320, 330-1 ; Lucretia 
and, 293-6; Pope and, 349 

Cenci, Cristofano, sent to Sala- 
manca, xviii, 285; death an- 
nounced, 289-90 

Cenci, Count Francesco, banquet of, 
xviii, 288-93; Beatrice and, 285, 
295, 296-7, 318-24; Cardinal Ca- 
millo and, 281-4; chapel built by, 
278; Lucretia and, 297-8, 318-20; 
murdered, 326-8; plots against, 
310-14, 317-18 

Cenci, Giacomo, accused by Marzio, 
xviii, 338; Beatrice and, 314-15, 
345-8, 351; Camillo and, 299-300; 
Orsino and, 300-2, 312-18, 335-7 

Cenci, Lucretia, accused by Marzio, 
xviii, 338; arrest of, 332-4; at the 
banquet, 289; Beatrice and, 294- 
6, 303-11, 324-8, 329-31, 345-8, 
351; Bernardo and, 293-4; Count 
Cenci and, 297-8, 318-23; remarks 
on religion of, 278 

Cenci, Rocco, son of Francesco, 
xviii, 285, 289-90 

Cenci Palace, Shelley on, xviii, 279-80 

Cennini, Bastiano, xxxi, 165 

Censorinus, Plutarch on, xii, 152 

Censorious Critic, Burns's Reply 
TO A, vi, 290 

Censoriousness, Burns on, vi, 192- 
4; Kempis on, vii, 253 (i, 2); 
Jesus on, xliv, 375 (41-2); Locke 
on, xxxvii, 130; M. Aurelius on, 
ii, 294, 301 (12); Moliere on, 
xxvi, 204-5; Penn on, i, 342-3t 



180 



GENERAL INDEX 



363 (274), 414; Raleigh on, xxxix, 
7j; Sidney on, xxvii, 33-4 

Censors, duties of Roman, ix, 419 
note 2 

Censorship, Milton on government, 
iii, 217-21 

Censorship of Press, Milton on, iii, 
202-44; Pascal on, xlviii, 319-20 

Censure, Browne on, iii, 331 ; 
Heminge and Condell on, xxxix, 
155; man's dislike of, ii, 141 
i(>7) ; Marcus Aurelius on endur- 
ance of, 195 (13). ^TZ i27)y 275 
(34) ; Pascal on human dislike of, 
xlviii, 44-5 

Census (U. S.)» provisions for tak- 
ing, xliii, 193 (3) 

Centano, Andrea, xxxi, 2^7, 2 z^ 

Centaurs, beginning of their feud 
with men, xxii, 303; in Dante's 



witn men, xxii, 303; in uai 
Hell, xx, 51-2; Theseus and, 



note 



247 



Centralization, Mill on, xxv, 125-6, 
^ 320-5 

Cephalos, the Attic boy, iv, 38 
Cephas, Peter called, xx, 378 note 
16; Christ's appearance to, xlv, 
522 (4) 
Cephisophon, in The Frogs, viii, 

464 
Cerbaia, Orso da, xx, 168 note 6 
Cerbellon, Gabriel, xiv, 407 
Cerberus, ^^neas and, xiii, 225; in 
Dante's Hell, xx, 25-6; Hercules 
and, 39 and note 
Cerchi, Veri de', head of Bianchi 

faction, xx, 27 note 4 
Cerealis, letter to, ix, 2^6 
Ceremonies, Browne on religious, 
iii, 267 (3); Confucius on, xliv, 9 
(4), II (15); Hume on religious, 
xxxvii, 346-7; Locke on excess 
of, 132-3; Luther on religious, 
xxxvi, 392-7; Montaigne on, xviii, 
12-13; Pascal on religious, xlviii, 
92 (250-2) ; Penn on religious, i, 
380-1 /507)» 405.(175); Rousseau 
on religions, xxxiv, 291-2, 312-13; 
Shakespeare on, xlvi, 193 note 35, 
341; lead to superstition, iii, 48; 
Swift on, xxvii, 107-8 
Ceremonies, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

131-2 
Ceres, daughter of (see Proserpine) ; 
Proserpine and, iv, 164; in The 
Tempest, xlvi, 426 
Ceri, Rienzo da, xxxi, 48 note 2, 73 
Ceroxylus Laceratus, xi, 236 
Certainty, Descartes on, xxxiv, 29; 
impossibility of, xlviii, 29, 129 
(3^7)* 150 (437); Pascal on, 87 
(234) 
Certus, Publicius, ix, 357-60 
Cervantes, Miguel de, author of 
Don Quixote, xiv; captivity of, 
413; Galatea of, 57; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 369; life and works of, 



xiv, 3-4; Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 

Cervolles, Arnaud de, xxxv, 39 note 
^ 4, 48, 49 
Cesano, Gabriel, 270 note 3, xxxi, 

271, 272 
Ceserino, Gabbriello, xxxi, 47 
Cessation, the trance of, xlv, 747-53 
Cethegus, Caius, in Catiline con- 
spiracy, xii, 279-80, 238, 240; 

executed, 243, 251 
Cethegus, Marcus, old age of, ix, 

64 
Ceylon, slavery not practised in, 

xxxv, 239 note 
Chacao, Chili, xxix, 292 
Chachidiablo, on Don Quixote, xiv, 

542 
Chaerephon, Plato on, ii, 7 
Chaeronea, Demosthenes at battle of, 

xii, 213; iv, 81 
Chafing Gear, defined, xxiii, 19 
Chagos Islands, xxix, 504 
Chagres, river, xxxiii, 148 
Chalk Formations, Darwin on, xi, 

373 
Chalmers, on the public, xxviii, 130 
Chalmers, Willie: a song, vi, 238-9 
Chalybe, priestess of Juno, xiii, 258 
Chalybes, the, viii, 180 and note 43 
Cham, Amalthea and, iv, 164 
Chama, shells of the, xxix, 485 
Chamavians, Tacitus on, xxxiii, 114 
Chambered Nautilus, The, xiii, 

1442 
Chamberland, The Germ Theory, 

xxxviii, 283, 382-9 
Chamisso, on coral islands, xxix, 
492; on seeds, 480; on trans- 
ported stones, 487 
Chamois Hunter, in Manfred, xviii, 

412-17 
Chamois Hunter, song of, in Wil- 

helm Tell, xxvi, 370-1 
Chamouni, glacier 01, xxx, 227-30^ 

232-3 
Chamouni, Hymn in the Vale of, 

xii, 724-6 
Champlain, Lake, naval forces on, 

xliii, 284 
Chance, in Chaos, iv, 133-5; Emer- 
son on, V, 88; Hume on, xxxvii, 
351, 384; Pope on, xl, 425; provi- 
dence in, iii, 281-3; Sophocles on, 
viii, 279; in thoughts, xxxix, 125 
Chancellorsville, Haskell on, xliii, 

348 
Chandos, Sir John, in French in- 
vasion, xxxv, 178; Lord Clermont 
and, 41; at (Trecy, 23; at Poitiers, 

43, 46, 53^ , . ,. ^ 

Ch'ang-chii, Confucius on, xliv, 63 

(6) 
Change, Carlyle on, xxv, 366-8; 
Confucius on, xliv, 55 (36), 59 
(3); dread of, v, 99; Emerson on, 



GENERAL INDEX 



181 



xliii, 13 12; Goethe on, xxxix, 272; 
Hooker on, 195; the law of the 
universe, ii, 220 (36), 221 (42, 
43), 248 (18, 19, 23), 249 (25), 
251 (47)» 257 (6), 272 (19), 
280 (7), 282 (11), 283 (18), vi, 
537; xxix, 521; Lowell on, xlii, 
1465-6; Lyell on uniformity of, 
xxxviii, 419-40; Marcus Aurelius 
on, ii, 201 (3), 214 (3); Pascal 
on, pleasure of, xlviii, 122 (355) ; 
Shakespeare on, xl, 280; tendency 
to, xij 257-8, 317; Tennyson on, 
xlii, I025 (see also Innovation, 
Vicissitude) 

Changelings, legerdemain of, iii, 
295 

Channa, charioteer of Buddha, xlv, 
659 

Channing, Dr., on puerperal fever, 
xxxviii, 264 

Channing, Edward T., cousin of R. 
H. Dana, xxiii, 420-1 

Channing, William Ellery, Coleridge 
on> V, 331; life and character of, 
xxviii, 318; On the Laboring 
Classes, 319-80 

Chanson de Roland, xlix, 95-208; 
Arnold on, xxviii, 71-2 

Chanticleer, in Nun's Priest's Tale, 
xl, 35-51 

Chao, Duke, xliv, 24 (30) note 8 

Chao of Sung, xliv, 20 (14) 

Chaos, Descartes on, under natural 
laws, xxxiv,^ 36-7; Milton's de- 
scription of, iv, 133-S 

Chapelain, Jean, Corneille and, 
xxxix, 381; Dryden on, xiii, 13 

Chapman, George, Arnold on, xxviii, 
82; Dryden on, xiii, 64; on man, 
V, 182 

Chapman's Homer, On First Look- 
ing INTO, xli, 919-20 

Character, beauty and, v, 320; 
Browne on outward signs of, iii, 
326-7; circumstances and, xxv, 
iio-ii; concealment of, impossi- 
ble, v, 295-6; consistency 01, 70- 
i; culture and, xxxii, 250-1, 269; 
discernment of, v, 147-8; educa- 
tion and natural, xxxvii, 47-8; 
force of, cumulative, v, 71; in- 
fluence of, in our civilization, 259; 
Locke on the native, xxxvii, 89- 
90; maker of its own forms, v, 
214; M. Aurelius on, ii, 218 (28), 
292 (15); Mill on, xxv, 265; the 
supreme end, v, 258; talent and, 
contrasted, 165-6 

Character, Essay on, Emerson's, v, 
191-205 

Characteristics, Carlyle's, xxv, 333- 
71; remarks on, 332 

Charaxos, and Rhodopis, xxxiii, 68, 
69 

Charcoal, combustion of, xxx, 165-6 

Charesha, island of, xxxiii, 149, 161 



Charge of the Light Brigade, 
Tennyson's, xlii, 1039 

Charity, Bacon on, iii, 34-5, 95; 
xxxix, 135; Browne on, iii, 324, 
326, 328, 345; Dante on, xx, 207. 
o, 396-8; Dante's allegory of, 268 
note 11; Dante's star of, 179 note 
9; David on, xliv, 196-^; Emerson 
on popular, v, 67; Emerson on 
relating our, 134; Herbert on, xv, 
413; Hobbes's definition of, xxxiv, 
354; Kempis on works of, vii, 
227; Luther on, xxxvi, 262, 268; 
method of, iii, 268; Milton on, 
iv, 360; More on, xxxvi, 210; 
offences against, iii, 320-31; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 191, 224 (663, 665), 
279 (793)> 280-1; Paul, St., on, 
xlv, 519 (1-13); Penn on, i, 343- 
4. 377 (469-70), 415-16; pleasure 
from, xix, 38; Pope on, xl, 441, 
450; pure and sentimental, xviii, 
178 

Charity, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 
55-6 

Charity, Mount, xv, 295 ^ 

Charixenus, and Endamidas, xxxii, 

83 

Charlatanism, Arnold on, xxviii, 66 

Charlemagne, and the Church, xx, 
310; in Dante's^ Paradise, 363; 
division of empire of, iii, 146; 
extinction of race of, xxxix, 84; 
at Fontarabbia, iv, 105; Hymn 
attributed to, xlv, 559; one of 
nine worthies, xxxix, 22; the 
Northmen and, v, 355; in Spain, 
xlix, 96 

Charlemagne, in Song of Roland, 
xlix, 96 

Charles I, of Anjou, abilities of, xx, 
175 note 11; Conradine and, 117 
note 3, 229 note 10; Machiavelli 
on success of, xxxvi, 43 ; Nicho- 
las, Pope, and, xx, 82 note 9; 
Thomas Aquinas and, 229 note 
11; victories in Italy, 68 note i, 
117 notes; wife of, 176 note 14 

Charles I, of England ("martyr"), 
controversy over, iv, 5 ; Drake to, 
xxxiii, 129; on English law, v, 
439; execution of, place of, xxxix, 
377-8; fondness for plays, xxxiv, 
156; Harvey and, xxxviii, 64; 
Marvell on death of, xl, 382-3; 
Milton on, xxviii, 194; Swift on 
reign of, xxvii, 104; Vane on, 
xliii, 129-30, 134; Voltaire on, 
xxxiv, 88 

Charles II, of England, Emerson 
on, v, 418; Hobbes and, xxxiv, 
318; Milton on restoration of, iv, 
5; Presbyterians and, xxxiv, 82; 
Puritans and, xxvii, 146-7; 
Quakers and, xxxiv, 74; Shellev 
on drama under, xxvii, 358; Wal* 
ler and, xxxiv, 149 



182 



GENERAL INDEX 



Charles II, Epitaph on, xl, 392 

Charles II of Naples, Dante on, xx, 
176 note 13, 229 note 14, 311 
note 24, 369 note 11 

Charles V, Emperor, Adrian, Pope, 
and, xxxvi, 106; Clement VII 
and, xxxi, 119 note 5; on Eraso, 
3CV, 331; France, passage of, 
through, xxxi, 335 and note; at 
Landresy, xxxviii, 17; Luther on, 
xxxvi, 260, 276; melancholy of, 
iii, 51; at Metz, xxxviii, 24, 2^, 
29-30, 32; More, Thomas, on, 
xxxvi, 140-1; the Netherlands and, 
xix, 246; Raleigh on, xxxix, 90-1; 
Rome, visit of, to, xxxi, 186-9; 
Ruysum in Egmont on, xix, 249; 
Seldius and, xxxix, 95-6; at 
Therouenne, xxxviii, 35, 45; in 
triumvirate of kings, iii, 52; Val- 
desso and, xv, 418-19; war with 
Francis I, xxxi, 71 note, 342 note 
I, 348 note i; wealth of, xxxiii, 
318 

Charles V, in Dr. Faustus, xix, 
226, 229-32 

Charles VI of France, Duke of 
Guelders and, xxxv, 104-5; Vol- 
taire on wars under, xxxiv, 88 

Charles VII, organizes national 
army, xxxvi, 49 

Charles IX of France, in Bayonne, 
xxxviii, 52; at Bourges, 48; at 
Havre de Grace, 51;^ Navarre, 
King of, and, 50; Pare and, 51, 
52, 53-4, 55; Raleigh on, xxxix, 
87; Voltaire on reign of, xxxiv, 
88 

Charles, Duke of Alengon, xxxv, 
26, 28, 30 

Charles of Almaine, in Crecy cam- 
paign, xxxv, 10, 28 

Charles the Bald, son of Debon- 
naire, xxxix, 86 

Charles of Burgundy, secrecy of, 
iii, T2 

Charles the Fat, xxxix, 86 

Charles of Lorraine, xx, 228 note 7 

Charles of Luxembourg, at Crecy, 
xxxv, 27-8 

Charles iMartel, king of Hungary, 
XX, 317-21 ^ 

Charles the Simple, xxxix, 86-7 

Charles of Valois, and the empire, 
XX, 311 note 24; in Florentine 
troubles, 2^ note 8, 229 note 12 

Charles, Elizabeth, translator, xlv, 
572 

Charles, Mr., agent of Pennsylvania, 
i, 166, 169 

Charles Island, Galapagos group, 
xxix, 397-8 ^ 

Charles's Wain (see Wain) 

CharIvES, King, Here's a Health 
TO, xli, 'j'jz 

Charlie, He's My Darling, vi, 522 

Charlie is My Darling, xli, 579-80 



Charming Month of May, vi, 539 
Charmion, maid of Cleopatra, xii, 

382;^ death of, 402 
Charmion, in All for Love, xviii^ 

37-8, 68, 70, 84, 85, 95, 06-9 
Charms, Burns on immortal, vi, 305; 

origin of term, xxvii, 1 1 
Charny, Sir Geoffrey, xxxv, 52 
Charon, The Refusal of, xli, 943-4 
Charon, yEneas and, xiii, 224-5; 
Dante on, xx, 15-16; description 
of, xiii, 221-2; Dirce and, xli, 
924; reference to, viii, 423 
Charon, in The Frogs, viii, 424-5, 

^427 

Charondas, iii, 255 note 46 

Charron, Montaigne and, xxxii, 109; 

Pascal on, xlviii, 21 (62); on 

reason, xxxix, 104; on religious 

creeds, xxxiv, 293 note 
Chartel, Capt., xxxviii, 19 
Chartism, and the Times, v, 466 
Chartist Day, nobility on, v, 424 
Charybdis, and Circe's _song, iv, 

53; description of, xiii, 144-S; 

Ulysses at, xxii, 175, 180 
Chase, Mohammed on the, xlv, 

1008, 1 018; Pascal on the, xlviii, 

53; value of the, to princes, 

xxxvi, 51 
Chassoygnet, the tree, xxxix, 13 
Chaste women, often forward, iii, 23 
Chastillon, M. de, xxxviii, 19 
Chastisement of children, xxxvii, 

36, 37-9. 40-1, 42, 43. 59» 64-6, 

69-71, 99-100 
Chastisements of heaven, Woolman 

on, i, 246-7 
Chastity, beauty and, xlvi, 136; 

Franklin's rule of, i, 84; Jonson 

on, xl, 303; Pascal on, xlviii, 129 

(385); Paul, St., on, xlv, 510 

(25-6); "she that has," iv, 57-8; 

spirit of, in New Atlantis, iii, 

177; sun-clad power of, iv, 67; 

''unblemished form of," 52 
Chasuarians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

114 
Chateau le Comte, xxxviii, 22-3 
Chateaubriand, Carlyle on, xxv, 

442; on criticism, xxxix, 405-6; 

Taine on, 437 
Chateauneuf, John of, xxxv, 99, 

103 
Chatelet, court of, Burke on, xxiv, 

357 
Chatham Island, Darwin on, xxix, 

395-7 

Chatham, Lord, better than his 
speeches, v, 191; on confidence, 
385; and the dictionary, 175; 
reference to, 71 

Chatterton, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 292; 
Saxon Poems of, xxxix, 346; Shel- 
ley on, xli, 890; Song from ^^illa, 
xli, 571-2; Wordsworth on, 675 

Chaucer, Geoffrey, Arnold, Matthew, 



QBNERAI. INDEX 



183 



on. xxviii, 77^x; luHoacoio and. 
xxxix. i7Sh8o; Cantkrbi ry Talks, 
Prologue to, xl, h-.m: Caxton 
on. xxxix, 19-- »: Dido, Ins ^Mctiirc 
of, V, 387; Drvden 011. xxxix. 161, 
i6a, 167-80: Kmerson on. v. i4g, 
188, 450; Froissart ai\d. xxxv. 4. 
on good blood, v. iSj-j; llarlitt 
on. xxvii. 285-6; Nun's Prjksv's 
Tauk. xl. 35-51; Ovid, cojiiparcd 
with, xxxix, iM. 107-0; retcMcMU'o 
to, iv. ^7-8; Ruskin on. xxviii. 
146: Shakesiveare and. xxxix. J41; 
Shelley on. xxvii. 307; Sidney on. 
9. 45; sonroes of his tales, xxxix. 
167-8. iSo: Thoreau on. xxviii, 
4j6; Wordsworth on. xxxix. ^47: 
Wordsworth on lanviviaj^e of. .-So 
note 
rh.iMO'.ins. Tacitus on the. xxxiii. 

I V > 

.'hautnber. Christopher, xlii, i.'oS 

/haurias. ii, joj 

/hanssier, on puerperal lev cm. 
xxxviii, j6o 

fheagle, John. i. 190 

L^heatinif. impossibility of. v. loj 

.liebar. Mihon on. iv, J5 (o) 

/hecks and Halances. \\'ashington 
on. xliii. .'50-00 

/heek. Sir John, Milton on. iv, Sj 

L'liKKK I'r, My Matks. xl. 375 

Cheerfulness, in music, xli. 490; 
Tenn on. i, jj«;i U»9^; in pros- 
perity, no crevllt, vii, J58 U) 

L^heiron. and Prometheus, viii. 101 
note 69 

i.'hemical affinity, caducity of. to do 
work. XXX. J 10-14; converted to 
heat and light. 50. -mi. ji-'; cor- 
relation witli electricity. 70-84. 
_• 1.1-14; detined. 47: illustrations 
of, 47-59; measurement of, ai8 

(Thkmical History of a Candle, 
XXX. 89-178 

IThemistry, Huxley on study of, 
xxviii. J30 

rhemmis, island of, xxxiii, 80-1 ; 
worsliip of Perseus in, 44-5 

Llieraos. description of. iv. 100 

.'h'en Ch'eng. xliv, 49 (jj) 

.Mi'en Won. xliv. 17 

L'henab. sediment of the, xxxviii, 

. henier. ^^a^ie-Joseph. on reason, 

xxxii. i^^o 
.'heops. klnc of Ejjypt, xxxiii, 64-5 
Chephren, king ot Egvpt, xxxiii, 

65-6 
Llierbourgr. taking of. by Edward 

III. xxxv, S. 9 note 
Chernubles, in Sonc. of Roi^\Nr», 
^ xlix, 131, 143 
Cherries, Locke on eating of, xxxvii, 

21 
Cherry-Ripe, by Campion, xl, 390-1 



V V KiPK. by TTcrrick. xl. J43 

Cherubnn. the. in Heaven, iv, 41, 

11 (I i) 
Cherubino, M.estro. xxxi, a73, 376, 

-»77. -78 
Cheruscans. Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

116 
Chess, among Mohammedans, xlv, 

1018 note I J 
Chestertield, Lord, Johnson's letter 

to, xxxix, J16-17, 191 note; lines 

ascribed to, 3^4; on truth in 

gentlemen, v. 380 
Cheucau, Darwin on the, xxix, 305- 

6, J96 
Chkvalikr's L.\mknt, The, vi. 3jj 
Chkvy Ch ask. xl, 94-ioj; Johnson 

on. xxvii. -mo 
Chi, Confucius on the. xliv, 9 U» 

0), J I (^j), 30 (.io>. 56 {\^ 
Chi Huan. xliv, 03 (4) 
Chi Rang, xliv. 8 (jo), 19 (6), 34 

{,0), 41 07) note 08, 19), 49 

U'o) 
Ch*i-tiao K'ai. xliv. 15 (5) 
C'hi Tzu-ch*eng. xliv. 30 (8) 
Chi Tru-jan. xliv, 36 Uj) 
Chi Wen. xliv, 17 (19) 
Chiana. river, xx, i^j note 2, 341 
Chicheley, Henry, xxxv, 40J 
Chicken-j>ox. and smallpox, xxxviii, 

i8j 
Chicken Cholera, Pasteur on, xxxviii. 

Chickens, counting, bet ore they re 
hatched, xvii, 43; llarvey on in- 
cubation of. xxxviii, 88-9; 90-1; 
incubation of, 135; instinctive 
fears oi, xi, J60-70 

Chidiiiif of children, Locke on, 
xxxvii, 43, 44-5. 51. 63-4, 07, 96, 

lOO 

Chidlev. Mr., on Dr. Donne, xv, 

347-S 
Chief Justice, presides at impeach- 
ment of president, xliii, 194 (,o) 
Chieh-yu. xliv. 63 («;) 
Chieh-ni. xliv, 03 (6) 
Chien. Duke. xliv. 40 (-'J> note 
Chigi. Agostino, xxxi. ^5 note 4 
Chigi. Porzia, and Cellini, xxxi. 35- 

C hih. music-master, xliv, 27 U5) 
Chilaway. Job, i, ^75 
Child, is father to the man. xli. 615 
Child. Ox a New-born. xli. 593 
Child of Quality, To a, xl, 4*^6-7 
Child's Crack, A, xl, 343 
Childbirth, Prowne on curse of, iii, 
J73 Vio"*; Holmes on, xxxviii, 
3';V6, .J64-6; Pasteur on. 400-1 
Childeric IlL xx. j.>8 note 7 
Childhood, intimations of immor- 
tality in, xli, 60Q-15: shows the 
man. iv, 405; wisdom sends us 
to, xlviii, 98 (-:7i) 



184 



GENERAL INDEX 



Children, Arabian proverb on, xvi, 
359; Bacon on, lii, 22\ xl, 359; 
confidence of, v, 65; Confucius 
on, xliv, 5 (6) ; Dante on, and 
parents, xx, 319-20; De Quincey 
on griefs of, xxvii, 336; fable on 
training of, xvii, 28-9; Goethe on 
fashioning of, xix, 360; ingrati- 
tude of, Lear on, xlvi, 225, 226, 
254; Jesus^ on, 407 (15-17); lib- 
erties of, in Massachusetts, xliii, 
82; Locke on training of, xxxvii, 
9-195; memory's voices, viii, 92; 
Mill on control of, xxv, 314; mis- 
fortune made harder by, vi, 234; 
Montaigne on, and parents, xxxii, 
75-7; Penn on trainmg of, i, 402- 
3; the Psalmist on, xliv, 315 (3- 
5); in Utopia, xxxvi, 194, 195, 
197-8, 203 

Children, by Longfellow, xlii, 
1331-2 

Children, Deaths of Little, xxvii, 
299-303 

Children, Institution and Edu- 
cation OF, xxxii, 29-73 

Children and Parents, Bacon's 
Essay on, iii, 20-1 

Children's Hour, The, xlii, 1347-8 

Chile, climate of, xxix, 261; Darwin 
on, 269-383; horses in, 166-7; 
Lyell on earthquakes in, xxxviii, 
410; Pretty on coast of, xxxiii, 
216-17 

Chileus the Arcadian, xii, 10 

Chillingworth, Locke on, xxxvii, 
170 

Chillon, On the Castle of, xli, 
832 

Chillon, The Prisoner of, xli, 
821-31 

Chiloe, climate and productions of, 
xxix, 260; Darwin on, 290-8, 309- 
15; orchard-making in, 316 

Chimaera, reference to, xiii,^ 221 

Chimaera, statue called, xxxi, 412 

Chimango, Darwin on the, xxix, 
66-8 

Chimborazo, Emerson on, v, 170-1 

Chimneys, in Elizabethan England, 
XXXV, 313 

China, ancient government of, xliv, 
68 note i ; ancient ordnance in, 
iii, 146; ancient, selection in, xi, 
48; ancient shipping of, iii, 165; 
cause of early civilization of, x, 
27-8; inoculation in, xxxiy, 99; 
law against visitors in, iii, 169, 
170; Mill on unprogressiveness of, 
XXV, 277-8; Pascal on history of, 
xlviii, 197-8; Smith on conditions 
in, X, 75-6; state of wealth of, 
loo-i, 309; women of, xxxvii, 16 

Chinese Sacred Writings, xliv, 

5-69 
Ching, Duke, xliv, 40 (11), 44 (8), 
58 (12), 63 (3) 



Chioccia, Bartolommeo, xxxi, 317, 
326 

Chionis Alba, xxix, 106-7 

Chiostra, Ulivieri della, xxxi, 21-2 

Chiromancy, Browne on, iii, 327; 
Jonson on, xlvii, 537 

Chiron, iii, 320; with the Argo- 
nauts, xxxiv, 132; the Centaur, 
xxxvi, 60; in Dante's Hell, xx, 
52; his refusal of immortality, 
xxxii, 2^ 

Chironomus, asexual reproduction 
of, xi, 478-9 

Chiu, Duke, xliv, 48 (17) note 

Chivalry, Burke on age of, xxiv, 
224-5; Cervantes on books of, 
xiv, 498-503, 507, 512-14; Don 
Quixote's defence of, 514-21; ex- 
amples of romances of, 51-8; 
orcier of, for girls and boys, 
xxviii, 162 note; Renan on origin 
of, xxxii, 166-7; romances of, 
parodied by Cervantes, xiv, 3, 12; 
Ruskin on, xxviii, 147-8 (see also 
Knight-errantry) 

Chlorate of potash, experiments 
with, XXX, 53-4 

Chloreus, the priest, xiii, 388-9 

Chloride of calcium, experiment 
with, XXX, 54 note 18 

C^hloris, in Hades, xxii, 159 

Chloris, sonnets to, xiv, 348-9 

Chloris, On, vi, 532 

Chloris Being III, vi, 569 

ChloriSj Inscription to^ vi, 579 

Chloris, Sedley's, xl, 392 

Choaspes, river, iv, 395 

Chochilaicus, Danish king, xlix, 3 

CncEPHORiE (see Libation-Bearers) 

Choiseul, Duke de, Burke on estate 
of, xxiv, 262 

Choler, Bacon on, iii, 98 

Chonos Archipelago, Darwin on, 
xxix, 298-308 

Chorazin, Jesus on, xliv, 387 (13) 

Chorus, the, in tragedy, iv, 417 

Chorus of Captive Women (see 
Libation-Bearers, viii) 

Chorus, of Danites (see Samson 
Agonistes, iv) 

Chorus of Frogs (see Frogs, The, 
viii) 

Chorus of Trozenian Women (see 
HiPPOLYTUS, viii) 

Chorus of Furies (see Furies, The, 
viii) 

Chorus of Huntsmen (see Hippo- 
LYTUS, viii) 

Chorus of Initiated Persons (see 
Frogs, The, viii) 

Chorus of Inspired Damsels (see 
BacchvE, The, viii) 

Chorus of Old Men (see Agamem- 
non, viii) 

Chorus of Priests and Suppliants 
(see CEdipus the King, viii) 



GENERAL INDEX 



185 



Chorus of Theban Elders (see An- 
tigone, viii) 
Chou, Chinese dynasty, xliv, 9 note 

9, II (14) 

Chou, Duke of, xliv, 22 (5) note, 
26 (11), 65 (10, II) 

Chou, Emperor, xliv, 63 note i, 67 
(20), 68 (i) note, 69 note 

Chriemhild (see Grimhild) 

Christ, Arnold on, xlii, 1184-5; 
Augustine, St., on, vii, 57-8, 78, 
113, 119-20, 205-6; Bacon on 
prophecy of, iii, 96; Bunyan on, 
XV, 56-7, 215-19, 289; Calvin on, 
xxxix, 52-3; Church doctrine of, 
xlviii, 333; Clement, St., on, xlv, 
553-4; the ''Counsellor," iii, 55; 
Dante on, xx, 313-15, 34i note 6; 
in Dante*s Paradise, 384-7; as 
David's son, xliv, 414 (41-4); 
genealogies of, 193-4; (jreek Hymn 
on, xlv, 553; Hell visited by, xx, 
36 note, 51 note; Herbert on, xv, 
406; Hugo on, xxxix, 360; Jewish 
rejection of, xlviii, 271 (760-2); 
Jews in New Atlantis on, iii, 
176; John the Baptist on, xliv, 
366 (15-17); Keble on, xlv, 579; 
the kingdom of, xxxvi, 290; Les- 
sing on, xxxii, 207-9, 212; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 363, 365, 376-7; Luther 
on belief in, 364-6, 368, 370-2, 
373-5, 377* Moses's prophecy of, 
xliv, 444 (37) ; Niceta of Remi- 
siana on, xlv, 558; Pascal on, 
158 (466), 163 (483), 169 (512), 
173 (526-8), 176 (543, 545-54), 
185, 186, 198 (596), 199 (599- 
600), 201 (607, 609), 224 (665), 
225 (666, 668), 226 (670), 230-1, 
272 (764-74), 275 (776), 276 
(780, 781-5), 281 (794-7), 282 
(800), 289 (822), 301 (846), 337- 
9, 354-5; Paul, St., on, xxxvi, 386; 
Penn on, i, 376 (456); Platonists 
on, vii, 1 12-13; proofs of, 265-83; 
prophecies of, xlviii, 189-92, 205, 
206 (616-17), 208-9, 218, 219 
(644), 222 (656), 223 (659), 224 
(662), 226 (670), 236, 239 (701, 
706), 240 (707-12), 248 (715), 
249 (720), 252, 256-64, 265-6, 267 
(744), 268 (749), 269 (751-8, 
761), 292, 298; Quakers on, i, 
198; second coming of, xliv, 394 
(35-59), 406 (22-37), 407 (8), 
415 (8-11), 416 (25-36); second 
coming of, Browne on, iii, 
290; "unconscious prophecies" 
of, viii, 185 note 59, 191 note 
69; Vane on, xllii, 130 (see also 
Jesus) 

Christ, in Paradise Lost, iv, 139- 
48, 198-9, 202, 224-9, 234-46, 296- 
300, 323; Bagehot on Milton's, 
xxviii, 202-4 



Christ, in Paradise Regained, iv, 

363-415 

Christ, Imitation of, Kempis's 
vii, 209-379 

Christ^s Nativity, On the Morn- 
ing OF, iv, 7-15 

Christabel, by Coleridge, xli, 726- 

44 

Christian, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV ; ancestors of, 267-8; Apollyon 
and, 60-5; Atheist and, 139-40; at 
Beautiful Palace, 49-51, 57-9; in 
Beulah-land, 158-60; burden of, 
13, 42; By-ends and, 103-5; char- 
ity and, 55-6; death of, 161 -2; in 
Delectable Mountains, 124-7; at 
Difficulty Hill, 45-6; in Enchanted 
Ground, 140-1; Evangelist and, 
14-15, 24-9, 90-3; Faithful and, 
71-9; Flatterer and, 137-8; Form- 
alist and Hypocrisy with, 43-5; 
Giant Despair and, 118-23; Good- 
Will and, 30-2; on Guilt, Mistrust, 
and Faint-Heart, 134-6; Hold-the- 
world and, iio-ii; Ignorance and, 
128-9, 149-53; at Interpreter's 
House, 32-41 ; on Little-Faith, 
130-4; on Lot's wife, 113-15; at 
Lucre Hill, 111-13; at Mount 
Sinai, 24; Obstinate and, 15-16; 
Piety and, 52-3; Pliable and, 15- 
18; Prudence and, 54-5; at River 
of Life, II 5-1 6; Simple and Sloth 
with, 43; in Slough of Despond, 
18-19; Talkative and, 82-5, 90; 
Timorous and Mistrust with, 47; 
in valley of Humiliation, 60, 244; 
in valley of the Shadow of 
Death, 65-70; at Vanity Fair, 94- 
8; Worldly Wiseman and, 21-4 

Christian of Troyes, xxxv, 108; on 
the Bretons,_ xxxii, 189; on 
France, xxviii, 76-7; Renan on, 
xxxii, 154 

Christian Broker, Story of the, 
xvi, 127-41 

Christian Church, Calvin on, xxxix, 
43-6, 54; schools of early, xxxv, 
282-3 

Christian Church, Hymns of, xlv, 
545-86 

Christian Holy Days, xv, 408-9 

Christian Liberty, Luther on, 
xxxvi, 362-97; remarks on 
Luther's, 260 

Christian Morality, Mill on, xxv, 

252-5 

Christian Sacred Literature, xliv, 
355-495; xlv 

Christiana, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV ; at Beautiful Palace, 226-30, 
240-2; death of, 314-17; at Diffi- 
culty Hill, 220-3; dream of, 202; 
in Enchanted Ground, 305; Great- 
Heart and, 214-20; Honest and, 
255; ill-favorea ones and, 199- 
202; in Immanuel's Land, 289; 



186 



GENERAL INDEX 



at the Inn, 266-7; at Interpreter's 
House, 203-14; lions and, 225; 
Mercy and, 188-92, 196-7; at 
Mnason's Inn, 283; pilgrimage of, 
182-6; in Slough of Despond, 
192-3; song of, 198-9; Timorus 
and, 187-9; ip valley of Humilia- 
tion, 243-7; in valley of Shadow 
of Death, 248-50; at wicket-gate, 

193-4 

Christianity, Bacon on, iii, 35; bard- 
ism and, xxxii, 176-8; Browne on, 
iii, 265 (2), 272 (9), 27s (10), 
291, 319; Carlyle on modern, xxv, 
353; Celtic Races and, xxxii, 178- 
90; Channing on influence of, 
xxyiii, 373-4; Dante on, and sal- 
vation, XX, 368-9; Emerson on, v, 
30-8, 86, 161-2; and freedom of 
conscience, xliii, 130; Goethe on, 
xxv, 398; heathenisms in modern, 
V, 288; Hobbes on belief in, 
xxxiv, 361-2, 394; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 359-62; Hume on, xxxvii, 
396, 414-15; Lessing on,^ xxxii, 
207-12; Luther on, xxxvi, 388, 
391; Manzoni on, xxi, 177-8; 
Marcus Aurelius and, xxv, 228- 
30; James Mill on, 30, 32; J. S. 
Mill on, 244-6, 252-5; paganism 
in, V, 286; Pascal on, xlviii, 69 
(194), 84, 89 (241), 91 (245), 92 
(251), 97 (269), 149, 150 (441), 
151 (444), 153 (450), 158 (468), 
164 (491), 167 (503), 175 (537-8), 
176 (542, 544)» 184-96, 197 (589), 
200 (601, 606), 201, 206 (615), 
237 (693)» 277 (783), 342-3, 376; 
Pascal on fundamentals of, 184- 
96; Pascal's proofs of, 102 (289), 
265; Penn on,i, 377 (468), 416 (296- 
99); perpetuity of, 204-9; poetry 
and, xxxix, 362-3, 373; porches 
of, xli, 503; Renan on marvelous 
element of, xxxii, 167; Rousseau 
on belief in, xxxiv, 303-9, 310-12; 
Rousseau on miracles of, 297 
note; Ruskin on modern, xxviii, 
127-8; rapid spread of, xxxiv, 
401; Shelley on, xxvii, 362-3; 
spread without books, iii, 220; 
Taine on, xxxix, 448-9, 457; in 
Utopia, xxxvi, 238-9; Vanity Fair 
opposed to, XV, 99; Wordsworth 
on, xxxix, 330 

Christians, Browne on instability of, 
iii, 290; disciples first called, xliv, 
455 (26); early, forbidden to 
teach, yii, 130; forbidden to read 
by Julian, iii, 209; and heathen 
taxes, i, 226 note; Marcus Aure- 
lius on, ii, 289 (3) Mohammed 
on, xlv, loio, 1014, 1016, 1017; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 94 (256), 118, 
175 (540), 176 (541), 227 (671), 
316 (903); Pascal on early and 
later, 378-82; persecutions of. 



foretold by Jesus, xliv, 415 (12* 
19); persecution of, in Jerusalem, 
446 (i), 456 (i); persecution 
or, by Marcus Aurelius, ii, 192; 
Pliny's letter on the, ix, 425-7; 
attitude towards poetry, xxxix, 
330; Trajan on the, 428 and note; 
Woolman on oppression by, i, 
320-1 

Christina, Queen, Pascal to, xlviii, 
366-8 

Christmas, celebration of, xv, 408; 
spirits at, xlvi, 92 

Christmas Hymn, xlv, 574-5, 

Chronology, Hakluyt on, xxx, 339; 
Hume on, xxxvii, 444; Locke on 
study of, 147, 164, 167-8; New- 
ton's system of, xxxiv, 129-33 

Chryseis, Agamemnon's slave, viii, 
60 

Chrysippus, ii, 177 (177) 

Chrysogonus, Alcibiades and, xii, 
143; freedman of Sylla, 226-7 

Chrysostom, St., and Aristophanes, 
iii, 204; in Dante's Paradise, xx, 
340 note 35; Olympias and, xv, 
381; Walton on eloquence of, 399 

Chrysostom, in Don Quixote, burial 
of, xiv, 105-8, 116-17; canzone of, 
109-12; Marcella and, 92-8, 112- 
16 

Chryssipus, citations of, xxxii, 31; 
on logic, 64-5 

Ch'ii Po-yu, xliv, 49 (26), 53 (6) 

Chung-kung, disciple of Confucius, 
xliv, 15 note 2, 18 note i, 19 (4), 
34 (2), 38 (2), 42 (2) 

Church, Burke on an established, 
xxiv, 239-47; civil authority in 
the, xliii, 78-9; Emerson on de- 
cline of the, V, 34-8, 285; Emerson 
on the future of the, 305; Emerson 
on revivification of, 42 ; liberty 
and the, xliii, 70; liberties of the, 
in Massachusetts, 86-8; Mill on 
an established, xxv, 72; Pascal on 
early idea of the, xlviii, 379; poli- 
tics and the, xxiv, 160; Raleigh 
on, xl, 208; Ruskin on the true, 
xxviii, 128; Tennyson on the, xlii, 
1093; in Utopia, xxxvi, 246-9 

Church, Future Peace and Glory 

OF THE, xlv, 576 

Church Councils (see Councils) 
Church Fathers, Calvin on the, 

xxxix, 37-41; Kempis on the, vii, 

229-31 
Church Music, Augustine, St., on, 

vii, 194-5; Dr. Donne on, xv> 

357-8 
Church Services, Herbert on, xv, 

405-7; Paul, St., on, xlv. 521 (26- 

35) 
Church of England (see England, 

Church of) 
Churchman, John, i, 209, 237, 238 
' Churchmen, best single, iii, 221 



GENERAL INDEX 



189 



Clare, Saint, xx, 298 note 5 
Claribel, daughter of Alonso, xlvi, 

399, 404 
Claridiane, Alphebo and, xiv, 16 
Clarin of Balaguet, xlix, 99 
Clarinda, Mistress of My Soul, 

vi, 311 
C1.ARINDA, Verses to, vi, 321 
Clark, Dr., on Unitarianism, xxxiv, 

84-5 
Clarke, Bishop of Bath, xxxvi, 107- 

8, 114, 119 
Clarke, Edward, Locke to, xxxvii, 5 
Clarus, Septitius, letter to, ix, 211 
C1.ASSIC, What is a, xxxii, 126-139 
Classics, Arnold on, xxviii, 69, 70; 

Hericault on, 68-9 
Classical Literature, Augustine on, 
vii, 18-19; Browne on, iii, 285-6; 
the grotesque in, xxxix, 368; 
Hugo on, 363; Hume on, xxvii, 
232-3; Huxley on study of, xxviii, 
221-9; Locke on, xxxvii, 81-2; 
Milton on study of, iii, 209-10; 
Shelley on immorality in, xxvii, 
352-3; Swift on study of, 11 8- 19 
Classification, Darwin on, xi, 142- 
3, 450-62; Darwin's theory, effect 
of, on, 524-6; embryos in, 488-9; 
Emerson on, v, 7-8; Hiickel on, 
xi, 472; rudimentary organs in, 
496 
Claudian, the poet, Shelley on, 

xxvii, 366; Taine on, xxxix, 450 
Claudine, Claudas's son, xxxv, 222 
Claudius, name of, xii, 162 
Claudius I, Emperor, descent of, 
xii, 403 ; famine in reign of, xliv, 
455 (28); and the Jews, 471 (2); 
Nonianus and, ix, 208 
Claudius, Appius (Caecus), old age 

of, ix, 59; Pyrrhus and, 51-2 
Claudius, Appius, the decemvir, iii, 

28; Plutarch on, xii, 170 
Claudius, King, in Hamlet, xlvi, 87- 
199; death of, 197; Gertrude and, 
93, 159-60; Hamlet and, 94-6, 132- 
3, 137-8, 162-4, 194-6; Hamlet on, 
155, 156; Hamlet's father mur- 
dered by, 108-9; Hamlet's friend? 
and, 116-17, 133-4, 150; Laertes 
and, 94, 169-70, 172, 174-8, 186-8, 
194-6; marriage of, 93; Norway 
and, 93-4, 118-19; Ophelia and, 
167-8; Polonius and, 11 9-21; re- 
morse of, 1 51-2 
Claudius, Publius (see Clodius) 
Clauserus, on poets, xxvii, 54 
Clausius, on freezing-point, xxx, 243 
Clausus, in ^Eneis, xiii, 267-8, 338 
Claveret, and Corneille, xxxix, 379 
Claverhouse (see Bonny Dundee) 
Clay, Henry, in Treaty of 1814, 

xliii, 273 
Clean Beasts, texts on, interpreted, 
XV, 85 



Cleandrides, and Pericles, xii, 61 
Cleanliness, Franklin on, i, 84; 

Woolman on, 323-4 
Cleante, in Tartuffe, Damis and, 
xxvi, 260-7; Orgon and, 198-205, 
254, 266-8, 280, 281-2; Mme. Per- 
nelle and, 191, i93-4> 19S-6; Tar- 
tuffe and, 250-2, 284; on Valere's 
marriage, 205-7 
Cleanthes, Newman on, xxviii, 52-3; 
on philosophy, ii, j6g ^142); re- 
mark of, xii, 115; verses on acqui- 
escence, ii, 179 (184): on the 
voice, xxxii, 30 
Cleanthes, Hymn of, ii, 185-6 
Clearness, less affecting than ob- 
scurity, xxiv, 53-7 
Cleigenes, Aristophanes on, yiii, 440 
Cleisthenes, reference to, yiii, 431. 
Cleitophon, pupil of Euripides, viii. 

Cleitus, son of Mantius, xxii, 214-15 

Clemency, in commanders, xxxvi, 

58-9; More on, 196; pity and, 

xxxiv, 193; Pliny on, ix, 361; in 

princes, xxxvi, 56-7 

Clemens, Attius, letter to, ix, 203, 

260 
Clement, St., of Alexandria, hymn 

by, xlv, 553-4 
Clement, Friar, Bacon on, iii, 103 
Clement V, Pope, Dante on, xx, 8t 
and note 4, 401 note 8, 416 note 7 
Clement VII, Pope, bastard son of 
Medici, xxxi, 88 note; Cellini and, 
42, 46-7, T^, 79-80, 81, 82, 83, 90- 
I, 92-4, 95-100, 102, 108, 110,112- 
14, 116-22, 124-32, 139, 141, 146- 
8; Charles V and, 119 note 5; 
the Colonnesi and, ^2 note; death 
of, 148; election of, 35; events of 
life, 17 note; Foiano and, 248 
note; Machiavelli and, xxvii, 384, 
419; reputed father of Alessandro 
de* Medici, xxxi, 182; in sack of 
Rome, 71, yzy 74, 76, 79-8o, 81, 
82-3, 215, 216; war with Flor- 
ence, 90 
Clement VIII, in The Cenci, xviii, 

275, 281-2, 299-300, 348-9 
Clemenza, Queen, xx, 321 note i 
Cleobuline, Pascal on, xlviii, 12 (13) 
Cleocritus, the Corinthian, xii, 89, 

lOI 

Cleombrotus, in Limbo, iv, ^150; not 
with Socrates in prison, ii, 47 

Cleomenes, Emerson on, v, 191; and 
the Samians, xxxii, (>z 

Cleon, the Athenian, Aristophanes 
on, viii, 435, 4^6; dream of, iii, 
97; Pericles ana, xii, T2-z% 75 

Cleon, in Polyeucte, xxvi, 87, loo-i 

Cleonice, called Byzantine Maid, 
xviii, 423 

Cleopas, xliv, 424 (18); and Jesus, 
XV, 412 

Cleopatra, at Actium, xii, 387-8; 



190 



GENERAL INDEX 



Antony and, 352-7, 362-3, 375-82, 
390. 395> 396; Antony's soldier 
and, 394; burial and statues of, 
402; Caesar and, 315-16; Caesar 
and, Dryden on, xviii, 44, 46; 
Dante on death of, xx, 310, in 
Dante's Hell, 23; daughter of, 
xii, 403; death of, 400-2; death, 
plans for, 392; monument of, 394; 
Octavius and, 392-3, 394> 397-8, 
399-400; Octavius and, Dryden 
on, xviii, 47-8; Pascal on nose of, 
xlviii, 63 (162); revels in Alex- 
andria, xii, 392; Seleucus and, 
394; Virgil on, xiii, 295-6 

Cleopatra, in All for Love, xviii, 
11; Alexas and, 84-8; Antony, her 
love for, 23, 25-6, 35-9; Antony, 
message to, 40-2; Antony, scenes 
with, 43-9, 50-1, 79-83, 95-6; 
death of, 96-9; Dolabella and, 
54-5, 67-72; Octavia and, 12, 62- 
5; suicide attempted by, 84; Ven- 
tidius on, 72-3 

Cleopatra, statue called, xxxi, 332 
note I 

Cleophantus, son of Themistocles, 

^"' 34 
Cleophon, Aristophanes on, viii, 

439. 465-6 

Cleremont, in Philaster, xlvn, 639- 
716 

Clergy, Dryden on satires on the, 
xxxix, 172-3; Emerson on the, v, 
12, 34-41, 309; Herbert on duties 
of the, XV, 411-12; Luther on the, 
xxxvi, 376; Luther on marriage 
of the, 317-21; maintenance of 
the, X, 486; More on idleness of 
the, xxxvi, 191; paid, remarks on 
a, V, 446; scandal of the, breeds 
atheism, iii, 46 

Clergymen, as examples, xv, 400 

Clerk, Chaucer's, xl, 19 

Clerk, John, manoeuvre of breaking 
the line, v, 372 

Clermont, Lord, and Chandos, xxxv, 
41 ; death of, 45 

Cletus, Bishop, xx, 401 note 4 

Cleveland, Grover, and Hawaii, xliii, 
464 note 

Clever Elsie, story of, xvii, 129 

Clifford, Lord Thomas, xxxv, 23 

Clifton, John, and street-lamps, i, 
125 

Climate, adaptation to (see Accli- 
matization) ; aesthetic disposition 
and, xxxii, 300; compensations of, 
v, 91 ; enjoyment of life and, 
xxix, 270; influence of, in strug- 
gle for existence, xi, 83-4, 91; in- 
dustry and, xxxiv, 181; jurispru- 
dence and, xlviii, 105; martial dis- 
position and, iii, 146; of northern 
and southern hemispheres,^ xxix, 
265; reacts on man, xxviii, 420; 
relation of, to productions, ii, ' 



395-6; Taine on effects of, xxxix, 

448; variations due to, ii, 146 
Climbing Plants, development of, xi» 

252-5; various methods of, 195 
Climorin, xlix, 118, 152 
Cline, Henry, on inoculation, 

xxxviii, 208-9 
Clinias, father of Alcibiades, xii, 

no 
Clinton, Sir Henry, Burns on, vi, 

55 
Clinton, Gov., story of, i, iii 
Clisthenes, Aristides and, xii, 81; 

Plutarch on, 38 
Clitandre, Moliere on, xxvi, 204-5 
Clitumnus River, Pliny on the, ix, 

^ 334-5 

Cloak, The Old, xl, 190-2 

Cloanthus, in the .<Eneid, xiii, 93, 

97, 186-90 
Clocks, gravity, xxx, 186-7 
Clodia, and Cicero, xii, 249-50; 

called Quadrantia, 250 
Clodius, Publius, Antony and, xii, 
335; Csesar and, 286; ix, 118; 
Caesar's wife and, 249, 281-2; 
Cicero and, xii, 250-4; ix, 4, 99, 
129; death of, xii, 255; Pompey 
and, ix, loi, 102; trial of, xii, 
249-50; widow of, 341; the sol- 
dier, and Antony, 347 
Cloe, by Prior, xl, 407-8 
Cloelia, reference to, xiii, 294 
Clonius, in the ^neid, xiii, 316, 

352 
Clotaldo, in Life Is a Dream, in 
battle, xxvi, 64; escape and re- 
capture, 56, 62-3; Rosaura and, 
15-18, 61-2; Segismund and, 27-8, 
33-7, 47-51, 67 
Cloth, defects of garments of, xlv, 

595 note 9 
Clothing, demand for materials of, 
X, 174-5, 186; Locke on, xxxvii 
lo-ii, 15-16, 31; materials of, do 
not limit population, x, 174; price 
of, 212-16; price of materials of, 
172-3 
Clothing (see also Apparel, Dress) 
Clotho, Dante on, xx, 232 
Cloud, The, by Shelley, xii, 875-7 
Clouds, on the Corcovado, xxix, 39; 

lesson from the, xv, 238 
Clou^h, Arthur Hugh, Poems by, 
xlii, II 65-8; reviser of Plutarch's 
Lives, xii, 4 
Clover, and bees, xi, 8^-8, 108-9 
Clubs, established by Cato, ix, 62 
Clusius, Charles, xxxv, 253 
Clymene, in Hades, xxii, 160; 
mother of Phaeton, xx, 358 note 
I ; reference to, iv, 380 
Clytemnestra, in House of Atreus, 
viii, 14-18, 26-7; ^gisthus and, 
69, 70; Agamemnon and, 35-40, 
57-65, 92-3; Cassandra and, 41-3; 
dream of, 93-4; ghost of, 119-20; 



GENERAL INDEX 



191 



Homer on, xxii, 41, 163; Orestes 

and, viii, 98-100, 106-11; Voltaire 

on, xxxix, 382 
Clytius, Cydon and, xiii, 337; death 

of, 323 
Clytoneus, in the Odyssey^ xxii, 107 
Cnossus, Governor of, and Epic- 

tetus, ii, 151 (93) 
Coadjutors, Luther on, xxxvi, 297, 

303 
Coal, heat from burning of, xxx, 

210-11; price of, x, 176-9 
Coal-gas, cause of brightness of, 

xxx, 114; carbon in, 168 
Coal-mines, rent of, x, 175-6, 178 
Coan, Hippocrates called, xx, 268 

note 15 
Coati, Dana on the, xxiii, 160 
Coats of Arms, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

382 
Cobbett, William, Carlyle on, xxv, 

424-5, 462 
Cobham, Raynold, in Crecy cam- 
paign, XXXV, 6, 9, 17, 22, 29, 32; 

at Poitiers, 42, 52, 53, 55 
Cobites, alimentary canal of, xi, 194 
Cock, lesson on the, xv, 239 
Cock, Thoreau on the, xxviii, 437 
Cock and Fox, fable of, xvii, 35 
Cock and Horses, fable of, xxvii, 

143 
Cock and Pearl, fable of, xvii, 9; 

Bacon on, iii, 35 
Cock-Fights, Blake on, xli, 601 
Cockatrix, fabulous serpent, xlvii, 

798 note 3 
Cockburn, Alexander, in Jamaica 

case, xxv, 190 
Cockburn, Alison R., Flowers of 

the Forest, xli, 494 
CocKPEN, The Laird o*, xli, 576-7 
Codes, Horatius, Virgil on, xiii, 

294 
Cocoanut Trees, Francis Pretty on, 

xxxiii, 210 
Cocoanuts, Biggs on, xxxiii, 244 
Cocytus, Dante on the, xx, 62; 

Homer on, xxii, 150; Milton on, 

iv, 125; Plato on, ii, 110; Virgil 

on, xiii, 216 
Codes, the conscience of nations, 

V, 256 
Codfish, Hayes on the, xxxiii, 284 
Coelius, at Actium, xii, 386 
Coffee, Burke on the taste for, xxiv, 

16 
Cog-wheels, considered as levers, 

XXX, 192-3 
Cohesion, Faraday on, xxx, 24-42 
Cohn, naturalist, on bacteria, 

xxxviii, 342 note 
Coila, Burns on, vi, 93-4> 251 
Coilus, king of Picts, vi, 183 note 6 
Coinage, expense of, x, 375, 475; 

origin of, 32-3; regulation of, by 

Congress, xliii, 174, 175, 196 (5) 



Coke, Sir Edward, Burke on, xxiv, 
180 

Colbert, Jean Baptiste, administra- 
tion of, X, 446-7; policy of, 364 

Colchians, Herodotus on the, xxxiii, 

Cold, Locke on endurance of, xxxvii, 
10, II, 14 

Cold's the Wind, xl, 326 

Coleman, Mr., Epilogue by, xviii, 
195-6 

Coleman, William, i, 60, 63-4, 65 

Coleridge, Hartley, She Is Not 
Fair, xli, 937 

Coleridge, Samuel Taylor, Arnold 
on, xxviii, 82; Bagehot on, 210; 
Emerson on, v, 331-3, 458-9; on 
fancy, xxxix, 322 ; on French 
Language, v, 403; life and works 
of, xxvii, 268; Mill on, xxv, 53, 
106-7; on Milton's Satan, xxviii, 
206; Poems by, xli, 698-749; On 
Poesy or Art, xxvii, 269-77; 
Wordsworth on, v, 337 

Colewort, only medicine in Rome, 
XXXV, 252 

Colgrevance, Sir, xxxv, 185-6 

Coligni, Burke on, xxiv, 196 

Coliseum, Byron's lines on the, 
xviii, 439-40 

Collar, The, xl, 353 

Colleagues, Confucius on sordid, 
xliv, 61 (15) 

College Men, Franklin on, i, 16 

College of the Six Days' Works 
(see Solomon's House), iii 

Colleges, Carlyle on use of, xxv, 
380; genius and, v, 439-40; office 
of, 12; study of dead matter in, 
267 

Collier, Jeremy, xxxix, 164 note 6, 
182-3 

Collingwood, Admiral, Emerson on, 
V, 362, 372, 391 

Collins, Anthony, Burke on, xxiv, 

237 
Collins, John, friend of Franklin, 

i, 15-16, 22, 29, 32, 33-5, 38 
Collins, John, the poet. To-morrow, 

xli, 607 
Collins, Michael, case of, xxviii, 

125-7 

Collins, William, Poems by, xli, 
487-93 ; Wordsworth on poems of, 
xxxix, 342 

Collinson, Peter, Franklin on, i, 
i53» 154. 166 

Colnett, on discolored sea, xxix, 
27; on lizards, 408-9; on Gala- 
pagos Islands, 415-16 

Colonia del Sacramento, xxix, 157 

Colonies, Bacon on, iii, 89-92; mo- 
tive of establishing, x, 414-23; in 
subject states, xxxvi, lo-ii; wages 
and profits in, x, 97-8 



VOL. L — HC (7) 



192 



GENERAL INDEX 



Colonna, Fabrizio, xxvii, 412 
Colonna, House of, and Clement 

VII, xxxi, ^2 note 
Colonna, Stefano, xxxi, 382 note 
Colonna Infame, story of, xxi, 4-6 
Colonnades, Burke on, xxiv, 67, 

118-19 
Colonnesi, Alexander VI and the, 
xxxvi, 25; Orsini and, 40, 41; 
Valentino and, 25-6 
Color, beauty and, xxiv, 100, 134; 
Berkeley on, xxxvii, 214-19, 282; 
cause of, xxxiv, 125; climate and, 
xi, 146; constitutional peculiari- 
ties and, 29-30; Goethe on opera- 
tion of, xxxix, 270; Hume on, 
xxxvii, 3ip; importance of, to 
animals, xi, 98, 209; nature of, 
illustrated, xxx, 274; as source of 
the sublime, xxiv, y2 
Colpoda, Pasteur on, xxxviii, 353, 

359 
Columba, Renan on, xxxii, 180, 182 
Columbus, Christopher, Emerson on, 
V, 86; Smith on, x, 417-20; Vol- 
taire on, xxxiv, 1 01 
Columbus, Letter of, xliii, 22-8 
Columbus, Prayer of, xlii, 1506-8 
Columbus, Realdus, on the circula- 
tion, xxxviii, 102; on the heart, 
74; on the lungs, 70 
Columella, on agriculture, xxvii, 
68-9; on country life, 65; on en- 
closures, X, 163; on flowers, xxxv, 
250; on vineyards, X, 163-4 
Combe, George, xxviii, 218 note 
Combination, of capitalists, x, 70-1; 
Mill on liberty of, xxv, 215; to 
fix wages, X, 151; of workmen. 

Combustion, of carbon and other 
substances compared, xxx, 168-70, 
176-7; chemical affinity, the cause 
of, 57; with and without flame, 
108-9; heat generated by, 210-11; 
oxygen necessary to, 57-9, 107-8; 
illustrations of, in oxygen, 48-9, 
55-6, 143-4; water produced by, 
117-19 

Come, Let Me Take Thee to My 
Breast, vi, 501 

Come Under My Plaidie, xli, 591-2 

Comedy, burlesque and, xxxix, 185- 
7; Cervantes on, xiv, 502-7; Dry- 
den on origin of, xxxix, 224; 
Fielding on epic, 184; Hugo on, 
363;^, 374; Hume on standards of, 
xxvii, 231-2; Johnson on, xxxix, 
234; Macaulay on wit in, xxvii, 
402-3; M. Aurelius on, ii, 290 (6); 
popular notions of, xxxix, 225; 
Sidney on, xxvii, 29-30, 48-9; 
Voltaire on translations of, xxxiv, 

^43 
Comenius, John Amos, iii, 248 note 
Comestor, Petrus, xx, 339 note 33 
Comets, Bacon on effects of, iii, 



144; nature and motion of, xxxiv, 
120-1 

Comfort, Confucius on, xliv, 46 
(3); Kempis on, vii, 246 (9), 
249 (4), 257-60, 280-9 

Comic Epic in Prose, Fielding's, 
xxxix, 184-90 

Comines, Philip de, on England, v, 
369; Montaigne on, xxxii, 104 

Cominius, Roman consul, xii, 158, 
159; names Coriolanus, 161 

Comitatus, institution of the, xlix, 
79 note 2 

Commandments, The Ten, Locke 
on, xxxvii, 141; Milton on giving 
of, iv, 351; More on, xxxvi, 158-9 

Commendams, Luther on, xxxvi, 

^ 297, 303 . ^ , 

Commendation, St. Augustine on, 
vii, 59 

Commentators, Johnson on, xxxix, 
253-61; Locke on, xxxvii, 180-1; 
Montaigne on, xxxii, 11 1 ; Vol- 
taire on, xxxiv, 135 

Commerce, in agricultural system, 
X, 451-6, 459-63; Bacon on, in 
ancient times, iii, 165, 168; cap- 
ital used in, x, 304, 306-7, 310-17; 
domestic, sacrificed to foreign, 
331-2; favored above agriculture, 
6; foreign (see Foreign Com- 
merce) ; Harrison on, xxxv, 236- 
7, 237-8; honor and, xli, 535; in- 
terferences with, ^ by landed na- 
tions, X, 456-7; internal, 319-20, 
465; language and, xxxix, 212; 
military spirit and, xxvii, 391-2; 
necessity of, x, 26-8, .302; regula- 
tion of (U. S.), xliii, 196 (3), 
198 (6); Wordsworth on, xli, 
693; works and institutions for 
facilitating, x, 474-85 (see also 
Trade) 

Commercial Policy, Washington on 
our, xliii, 264-5 

Commercial Pursuits, Emerson on, 
V, 47-8 

Commercial System, x, ^ 2^^'47* 
Channing on the, xxviii, 373-4; 
Emerson on the, v, 47-9; false 
relations under, 266; Harrison 
on, xxxv, 237-8; More on, xxxvi, 
191-2; origin of, x, 29; producers 
and consumers under, 444-5; re- 
sults of, V, 416; Ruskin on the, 
xxviii, 119-20; Tennyson on the, 
xlii, 1053-5; ways of trade under, 
V' 47-8. 
Commercial Treaties, Smith on, x, 

407-13 
Commissary Goldie's Brains, vi, 

488 
Commissions, Bacon on standing, 

iii, 58 
Commodus, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 

67 > 69, 71; statue called, xxxi, 

332 note I 



GENERAL INDEX 



193 



Common, Dorothy (see Dol Com- 
mon) 

Common Law, suits at, in U. S., 
xliii, 208 (7) ; Winthrop on the, 
III 

Common Sense, Dryden on, xxxix, 
170-1; Epictetus on, ii, 150 (90); 
limitations of, xxviii, 428; Mon- 
taigne on, xlviii, 397, 401; in 
morals, Kant on, xxxii, 334-5 

Common Things, Emerson on, v, 
21-2; Penn on, i, 345 (68) 

Commons, House of, Voltaire on, 
xxxiv, 90-2 

Commonwealth, English (see Instru- 
ment of Government) 

Commonwealths, More on, xxxvi, 
250 

Commotions, Calvin on, xxxix, 46-9 

Communion, holy, Bunyan on, xv, 
236-7; Calvin^ on, xxxix, 40; 
Kempis on, vii, 349-79; St. Paul 
on, xlv, 514 (16-17); Quakers on, 
xxxiv, 67; Rousseau on, 313 

Communism, Emerson on, v, 270-1; 
instituted by Christ, xxxvi, 239; 
Lowell on, xxviii, 483 ; More on, 
xxxvi, 177, 178-9, 195-6, 197, 200- 
I, 250, 252, 253, 254 

Commutative Justice, Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 422-3 

Como, Lake, Manzoni on, xxi, 7 

Compacts, Mohammed on, xlv, ^2^ 

Companies, regulated and joint- 
stock, X, 480 

Company, C^onfucius on, xliv, 30 
(29), 55 (39); determines man- 
ners, xxxvii, 132-3; Epictetus on 
choice of, ii, 166 (137); Epictetus 
on vulgar, 154 (99), 157.. (107), 
175 (167); Kempis on, vii, 220; 
Locke on importance of, xxxvii, 
53» ^15-6; Massinger on, xlyii, 
829; Pascal on choice of, xlviii, 
10 (6); St. Paul on, with evil- 
doers, xlv, 507 (9-13); Penn on, 
i, 352 (128); of strong and weak, 
xvii, 31 

Comparison, necessary to criticism, 
xxxix, 218-19 

Comparisons, (joethe on, xxxix, 269 ; 
Hume on, xxvii, 225-6; Words- 
worth on, xxxix, 329 

Compass, of the Phoenicians, v, 476 

Compass-flower, xlii, 1407 

Compassion, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
34-5; Bacon on, iii, 36; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 356; Pliny on, ix, 370 
note (see also Pity, Sympathy) 

Compensation, Darwin on growth 
of, xi, 158-60; Epictetus on, ii, 
126 {.2"]^', Gray on, xl, 473; Pope 
on, in nature, 422-3; 01 pleasure 
and pain, Socrates on, ii, 48; 
Whitman on, xxxix, 426-8 

Compensation, Essay on. Emer- 
son's, V, 89-107 



Competition, as cause of quarrels, 
xxxiv, 403, 404; excessive, gen- 
erates fraud, xxviii, 327; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 385; of labor, restraints 
on, X, 126-38, 143-52; of labor, 
unnaturally encouraged, 138-43; 
Mazzini on, xxxii, 403 ; necessary 
to good management, x, 157; in 
professions, 138-43; as regulator 
of prices, 60; results of, v, 416 

Competitive Prices, tendency to 
minimum, x, 65 

Competitive System, Ruskin on the, 
xxviii, 136 

Complacency, Penn on, i, 353-4 

Complaint of the Absence of Her 
Lover, xl, 196 

Complaints, of children, xxxvii, 96; 
Kempis on, vii, 2■\^ (6) 

Complaisance, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

423-4 
Compleat Angler, Walton's, xv, 326 
Compliance, Cicero on, ix, 39-40; 

Locke on, xxxvii, 130 
Compliments, Bacon on, iii, 132 
Compositae, Darwin on, xi, 157, 225, 

491 
Composition, Hume on rules of, 

xxvii, 219 
Compositions, Luther on papal, 

xxxvi, 300 
Compound Animals, Darwin on, 

XXIX, 217-18 
Compound Fractures, Lister on, 

xxxviii, 272-4, 276-7 
Compound Words, Johnson on, 

xxxix, 198, 199-200 
Comprehension, Raleigh on, xxxix, 

108 note 
Compromise of 1850, xliii, 327 note 
Compromises, Lowell on, xxviii, 

476; Mill on, XXV, 59; with sin, 

xlii, 1449 
Compulsion, Locke on, in education, 

xxxvii, 61, 186 
Compunction, Kempis on, vii, 234 

(5). 2^5-7 
Comte, Auguste, Mill on, xxv, 108- 

9» 135-8, 157 note 2, 216 
CoMus: A Mask, iv, 46-74; Bagehot 

on, xxviii, 213; at Ludlow Castle, 

V, 427 
Conaire, story of, xlix, 214-62 
Conall Cernach, xlix, 240-1, 246, 

259, 260, 263-4 
Conceit, ^sop's fable of, xvii, 19; 

Epictetus on, ii, 143 {72); results 

of, xxxiv, 367; Smith on, of man- 
kind, X, 1 13 
Conceit, country of, in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 128 
Concentration, Buddha on, xlv, 717- 

19, 720-1, 745 
Concepcion, Chili, earthquake at, 

xxix, 222-7 
Conception, Point, Dana on, xxiiii 

72't gale off, 22^-30 



194 



GENERAL INDEX 



Conceptions, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 
233 ; Descartes on reality of, 
xxxiv, 29, 34; Hobbes on impossi- 
ble, 335; Taine on various kinds 
of, xxxix, 443-4 

Conchenn, the giant, xlix, 255 

Concini, wife of, v, 194 

Concino, Bartolommeo, xxxi, 449 
note 

Conciseness, Pliny on, ix, 214-7; 
Pope on, xl, 417 

Concord, even among devils, iv, 123 

Concord Hymn, xlii, 1296-7 

Concrete Qualities, due to partici- 
pation in abstracts, ii, 95-7 

Coney, Raoul of, xxxv, 35, 36 

Conde, Prince of (Louis I of 
Bourbon), constable at Bourges, 
xxxviii, 49; at Danvilliers, 20-1; 
in Germany, 19; at Metz, 24; at 
Turin, 9; wounded at St. Denis, 
52-3; wounded at St. Quentin, 46 

Conde, **the Great," before Rocroi, 
xxi, 25; at Seneffee, xxxix, 183 

Condell, Henry, Preface to Shake- 
speare, xxxix, 155-6 

Condillac, Abbe de, on languages, 
xxxiv, 184; Mill on, xxv, 45, 49 

Condiments, Locke on, xxxvii, 17 

Conditions of Life, direct and indi- 
rect effects of, xi, 26-9, 145-7; 
effect of changed, on fertility, 
316; law of, 218; slight changes 
in, beneficial, 317; Taine on, 
xxxix, 447-9 

Condolence, Sulpicius on, ix, 172; 
Pliny on, 287 

Condor, Darwin on the, xxix, 196- 
201 

Condorcet, Burke on, xxiv, 442; 
death of, alluded to, 22-] note; 
hife of Turgot by, xxv, 76 

Conduct, Buddha on, xlv, 717-19; 
not motives, to be judged, xxv, 
37; Penn's rules of, i, 351 

Confectionery, Locke on, xxxvii, 22 

Confederation, The Articles of, 
xliii, 168-79 

Conference, maketh a ready man, 
iii, 128 

Confervae, Darwin on, xxix, 24-8 

Confession, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
65; Dante on, xx, 274 (note 2); 
Herbert on, xv, 404-5; Kempis on, 
vii, 292 (i); Luther on, xxxvi, 
321-2, 383-4; Pascal on, xlviii, 
43-4 

Confessions of St. Augustine, vii, 
5-206 

Confidence, between parents and 
children, xxxvii, 86-7; daughter 
of fortune, iii, 105; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 353, 355, 380; Kempis on 
over-, vii, 234 (4) ; in self, Emer- 
son on, V, 63-7; 72-3; Epictetus 
on, ii, 120 (9) 



Confiscations, Burke on, xxiv, 303, 
304; Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 58,62 

Conformity, Burke on, xxiv, 45; 
Emerson on, v, 66, 68-9; Mill on, 
xxv, 163, 261, 263, 266, 275-6; 
Milton on, in religion, iii, 240; 
Penn on, i, 411-12 

Confucius, the basket-bearer on, 
xliv, 51 (42); Chi Huan and, 63 
(4) note 3; Chieh-yii and, 63 (5); 
Duke Ching and, 63 (3) ; the gate- 
keeper on, 51 (41); habits and 
character of, 6 (10), 22 (4, 9, 12, 
i3)» 23 (17, 20), 24 {26, 31), 
25 (37), 28 (4, 9), 31-3; on him- 
self, 7 (4), 18 (25, 27), 21 (i), 
22 (2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 11), 23 (16, 
18, 19, 21, 22, 2Z), 24 i^27, 29, 
32), 25 (33)» 28 (2), 28 (6, 7, 
8), 29 (15), 34 (i), 44 (10), 50 
(30, 27^^ 52 (2), 65 (8); in 
K'nang, 28 note, 36 {22') ; life 
and works, 3; Sainte-Beuve on, 
xxxii, 136; story of, v, 472; on 
his teachings, xliv, 13 (15), 16 
(12), 23 (23), 24 (24), 27 (i); 
on tiger-skins, xxviii, 429; Tzu- 
kung on, xliv, (>7 (22) note 6, 67 
(23), 68 (24, 25); the warden of 
Yi on, 12 (24) ; wanderings of, 

63-4 

Confucius, Sayings of, xliv, 5-69; 
remarks on Sayings, 3 

Confusion, and grandeur, xxiv, 68-9; 
worse confounded, iv, 136 

Congregation Day, Mohammedan, 
xlv, 954 note 2 

Congress, power to propose amend- 
ments, xliii, 204; power to in- 
corporate banks, 223-4, 226-30, 
237-40; under the Confederation, 
169-70, 172-6; under the Con- 
stitution, 192-9; power to estab- 
lish courts, 202 (i); powers for- 
bidden to, 207 (i); implied pow- 
ers of, 227-37; relations with 
President, 201-2; power to pre- 
scribe proofs of state records, 
203; power to admit new states, 
203-4; power over territories, 
204; power to punish treason, 
203 

Congress of I774, xliii, 219-20 

Congreve, William, comedies of, 
xxxix, 245; Dryden and, xiii, 70; 
Macaulay on, xxvii, 402-3; Vol- 
taire on, xxxiv, 142; Wordsworth 
on, xxxix, 347 

Conio, Alberigo of, xxxvi, 46 

Conjectural Criticism, Johnson on, 
xxxix, 258, 260 

Connate Ones, the seven, xlv, 626 

Connecticut, Fundamentai, Or- 
ders OF, xliii, 63-9 

Conon, at ^gospotami, xii, 149 



GENERAL INDEX 



195 



Conquered States, arms in, xxxvi, 

^2% factions in, 'j2-z\ Machiavelli 

on, 8-12, 18-19 

Conquerors, Jesus on, iv, 390.. 

Conquerors, Locke on, xxxvii, 109 

Conquest, Hobbes on right of, 

xxxiv, 403; More on foreign, 

xxxvi, 168-9; Rousseau on right 

of , xxxiv, 218; vanity of, xl, 258-9 

Conrad III. and Cacciaguida, xx, 

352 note 15 
Conradino, of Naples, xx, 229 note 
10 

Conrayer, Father, xxxiv, 81, 97 

Conscience, Bacon on matters of, 
iii, 14-15; Beaumont on, xlvii, 
644; Carlyle on, xxv, 339; Cenci 
on, xviii, 324; Dante on, xx, 120, 
155; Emerson on, v, 66; Epictetus 
on power of good, ii, 161 (119); 
Goethe on persistency of, xix, 19; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 360-1 ; intellect 
and, xxviii, 334; Kempis on good, 
vii, 254-5; liberty and, v, 256; 
liberty of. Vane on, xliii, 130-2; 
Mill on liberty of, xxv, 218-59; 
Milton on liberty of, iii, 232-8; 
Pascal on rest and security of, 
xlviii, 317 (908); Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 73 ; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
245-6, 276-83; Webster on guilty, 
xlvii, 792-3, 812 

Consciousness, Carlyle on, xxv, 347; 
in death and rebirth, xlv, 697-8; 
of modern society, xxv, 348-9; 
origin of, xxxii, 278-9 

Consecration, Luther on, xxxvi, 279 

Conservation of Force, Helmholtz 
on, XXX, 181-220; discovery of the 
law, 1*3-4; statement of the law, 
184, 218-19 

Conservatism, Burke on, xxiv, 305, 
396; Emerson on, v, 274; Lowell 
on, xxviii, 484 

Conservatism, false, Smith on, xxvii, 
237.-65 

Consideration, Penn on, want of, 
i, 341, 362 (263) 

Considius, the Senator, Caesar and, 
xii, 286 

Consigne, Queen, and the mastiff, 
XXXV, 373 

Consistency, Confucius on, xliv, 55 
(36) ; Emerson on, v, 70-2 

Consolation, fallacy of false, xxvii, 
254-5; for death, God alone can 
give, vi, 287; Kempis on, vii, 262 
(3), 288-9; Kempis on inward, 
268-348; Pascal on, xlviii, 336, 
343-4; Pliny on, ix, 287; in public 
calamities, xxxii, 12 1-2; Sulpicius 
on, ix, 172 

Conspicuousness, human love of, 
xxviii, 96-7; why honorable, xxxiv, 
381 



Conspiracies, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 

63-4 
Constable, Henry, Diaphenia, xl. 

Constable, Thomas, translator of 

Corneille, xxvi, 69 
Constance, Council of, xxxvi, 333, 

334 
Constance, wife of Henry VI, xx, 

298 note 7 

Constancy, hyacinth, the flower of, 
vi, 431; Penn on, i, 351 (119) 

Constant Lover, The, xl, 363 

Constant Tin Soi^dier, The, xvii, 
312-16 

Constantine the Great, and Council 
of Nicaea, xxxvi, 286; Dante on, 
XX, 82 note 10; 280 note 11, 307 
note I, Z72 note 7, 8; the Dona- 
tion of, xxxvi, 310 note; and the 
nails of the cross, iii, 293; sons 
of> 53 J Sylvester and, xx, 82 note 
10, 115 

Constitution, first written, xliii, 63 
note; Lowell on an unwritten, 
xxviii, 482 

Constitution, Holmes on the frigate, 
xlii, 1443 note 

Constitution of United States, 
xliii, 192-211; the act of the peo- 
ple, not of States, 224-6; defended 
in Federalist, 212-21; Hamilton 
on the, 212-16; implied powers 
under the, 227-8, 229, 230-37; 
Lincoln on the, 337, 339, 342; 
Lowell on framers of the, xxviii, 
474-5* powers of nation and state 
under, xliii, 222-$, 224-6, 229-30, 
239; Washington on the, 256-7 

Constitutional Convention, Jay on, 
xliii, 219, 220; suggested by 
Vane, 141-2 

"Constitutional Society,'* Burke on 
the, xxiv, 153 

Consulates, expense of, x, 479 

Consumers, sacrificed in Commer- 
cial System, x, 444-5 

Consumption, annual, dependent on 
annual labor, x, 5; the end of 
production, 444; immediate and 
durable, 287-90; productive and 
unproductive, 271-2, 278-83; taxes 
on, 541-73; unproductive. More 
on, xxxvi, 1 91 -2; unproductive. 
Smith on, x, 243 
Contagious Diseases, Holmes on, 
xxxviii, 238 (3); Jenner on, 

172-3 
Contemplation, activity and, ii, 125 
(24); Buddha on, xlv, 720, 745; 
Burke on, xxiv, 40, 48; Epictetus 
on duty of, ii, 121 (13, 14), 141 
(68); Hindu ideal of, xlv, 827-8; 
Kempis on, vii, 260 (3), 307 (3), 
333 (O; Mill on, xxv, 98; Mon- 



196 



GENERAL INDEX 



taigne on, xxxii, 9; More on, 
xxxvi, 218-19, 243; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 59 (146); Plutarch on 
proper objects of, xii, 36-7; Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 288; Schiller on, 
xxxii, 297; two ways of, xxxix, 
123 

Contempt, Bacon on, iii, 142; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 351, 378; Kempis on 
self, vii, 285 (i); Locke on, xxxvii, 
129; Rousseau on beginnings of, 
xxxiv, 209 

Content, by Greene, xl, 289 

Content and Resolute, xl, 338 

Content, O Sweet, xl, 326-7 

Contented wi' Little and Cantie 
wi' Mair, vi, 542 

Contentment, Epictetus on, ii, 118 
(6), 121 (14), 127 (3O, 159 
(114), 163 (127), 165 (133), 178 
(182), 183 (17) 

Contentment, by Holmes, xlii, 
1445-7 

Contentment, Kempis on, vii, 219 (2), 
297 (5); Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 
201 (5), 204 (13), 212 (16), 213 
(3), 217 (23), 218 (25), 235 (11), 
244 (49, 50), 249 (27), 257 (7), 
260 (26), 278 (i), 287 (35), 290 
(7), 296 (20); Rousseau on, 
xxxiv, 268; Shellev on, xli, 849; 
wealth and, 535; Woolman on, i, 
222\ work necessary to, 147-8 
(see also Acquiescence, Independ- 
ence of Circumstances, Tranquil- 
lity) 

Contiguity of ideas, xxxvii, 323, 
346, 347 

Continental Congress, xliii, 160 
note, 168 note 

Continental Drama, xxvi 

Continents, Darwin on, xi, 362; 
Geikie on evolution or, xxx, 342- 
67; are rising areas, xxix, 506; 
species, affinity of, in same, xi, 
397-8 

Continuity, Pascal on, xlviii, 122 

(355) 
Contracts, Descartes on, xxxiv, 22\ 
Hobbes on, 410-17, 431; known 
only to man, x, 19; laws impair- 
ing, forbidden in U. S.. xliii, 
199; Mill on freedom ot, xxv, 

311-13 

Contradiction, Locke on, xxxvii, 
i3o-i» I33» 134; Montaigne on, 
xxxii, 42; Pascal on, xlviii, 128 
(384); Penn on, i, 353-4 (149) 

Contraries, the life of each other, 
iii»33o; in temper and distemper, 51 

Contrast of ideas, xxxvii, 323 
note 4 

Contrite, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 283-4, 287 

Contrition, Dante on, xx, 274 note 
2; Kempis on, vii^ 335; Luther 



on, xxxvi, 268; Pascal on, xlviii, 
322 (923) 

Controversies, Bacon on, iii, 13; 
Browne on religious, 269; Frank- 
lin on habit of, i, 15-16, 132; 
Penn on, 356 (184); truth and, 
^""^iv, 5^; uncertainty indicated 
by, xlviii, 315 (902); unsettled, 
in, 329 

Contumely, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 425 

Conveniences, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
206-7 

Convention, society loves, v, 218 

Conventionalities, Lowell on, xxviii, 
452 

Convents, Luther on, xxxvi, 316-17, 
321-2, 342 

Convergence of Character, xi, 138-9 

Conversation, attention to, ii, 246 
(4), 250 (30); Bacon on, iii, 87- 
9; Emerson on, v, 160; Epictetus's 
rules of, ii, 175 (164), 176 (171), 
177.(175); Franklin on the ends 
of, i, 19; Goethe on, xxxix, 266; 
Kempis on, vii, 222', one to one, 
V, II 7- 18; Penn on, i, 352 (see 
also Intercourse) 

Conversation, Essay on. Swift's, 
xxvii, 9^-105 

Conversini, Benedetto, governor of 
Rome, xxxi^ 212-14, 234 

Conversion, joy in, or men, vii, 
127; Pascal on, xlviii, 388-91; 
true, Emerson on, v, 32 

Conveyances, in Massachusetts, xliii, 

/^^ . 

Conviction, Epictetus on, ii, 154 

(99); is genius, v, 63; necessary 
to persuasion, xix, 27-8 
Convicts, children of, moral senti- 
ment of, V, 255; More on, xxxvi, 
160-3 
Conwaj\ Gen., i, 142 
Cook, Chaucer's, xl, 21-2; Drydcn 

on Chaucer's, xxxix, 174 
Cook, Capt., on kelp, xxix, 255 
Cook, Lady (see Danvers, jfane)» 

XV (424) 
Cook, Sir Robert, xv, 423-4 
Cookery, Penn on, i, 345 (61) 
Cooper, Fenimore, Carlyle on, xxr, 

409, 413-14 . 

Cooper, Joseph, 1, 56 

Cooper o' Cuddy, vi, 564 

Cooperation, conscious and uncon- 
scious, ii, 242 (42) ; of labor (see 
Division of Labor) ; man made 
for, ii, 200 (i); in nature, 221 
(40, 45)» 241 (38), 242 (43)» 

246 (9) . . , 

Cope, Prof., on reproduction period, 

xi, 197 , , 

Copenhagen, battle of, v, 358-9; in- 
dustries of, X, 276-7 

Copernicus, Nicolaus, life and 
works, xxxix, 55 note; misunder- 
stood, v, 70; Pascal on opinion 



GENRHAL INDKX 



197 



of. xlviii. 80 (218): Revolutions 

or likAVBNLY IktoiEs. xxxix, 55- 

60 
Copiapo. town of, xxix. 375; Ttllry 

of. J70 I 
Copiers, Horace on, xiii. 40 
Copland. on puerperal fever, 

xxxviii, 268 
Copley Medal, given to Franklin, i, 

156 
Copper, action of nitric acid on, 

XXX, ijj-4 
Coptilation. unnatural, in Maiaachu- 

law. xliii. 85 
Cui) rights, provision for, xliii, 197 

C8) 
Coquimbo. earthquake at. xxix. 362- 

3: terraces at, 363-4; town of, 

36a 
Curat Formations, Darwin on, xxix. 

4*5. 477*508; Lyell on, xxxviii. 

4-28. 4JI 
roralllri'- . Darwin on. xxix. J16 
i'or:^^ • h freding on. xxix. 400; 

^f 4^* u'l^^l*^ to liv^ out 

' f ii«r, 406 
( ally of Turnus, xiii, j6C 

( .>,\,rt. V' ' ' Fas* Rk- 

VN M. !> . • HIES. Xi 4 

ikUHltS. 1 A, Xl, ^$ 

( <.ri'<\ ..!,, t. lira/if. xxix, 10; 

' .309 

( w.< .1. "f •»--. iii. .4. 

( i. in ) KAX, xlvi, jo$; 

ij ! by I Jo6-7. aio: 

f by Hij . jiw, Kriel 

fur 1 ' < ; 

her ' r 

to K« III, -.1^, c 

hanged, 300, rctr. - f 

acter of. joj\ taken by France. 
^11; taken i»»;*"»>.r -.i'-j; with 
doctor in 1 '741: 

with •■ ^liii lather at 

his u 8 



rid**? de. in 



9 



»o 



r..f.ti:.it, Pliny on, Ix, f68-9. J73, 
' IS, in Civil War, xii, 311; 

' r of, 317. 

< X. 419 

I UA. xl, i99*joo 

' t, ml, J9IJ 

( • t Ni. « I laR ill 

' . 5 , 

4VV 
( iflAMi, RritTLBf TO Tag« xlv, 

< IS most respected 

8$ 
LoiiuUuus, accusations against, Kili 



168*9; Al<*n,;».!^* r^rr^pured with, 
I9J-6: A 1 of. into. 

164; baniM.inciit ot. 171-3; charac- 
ter of. I5J-3; consulship, defeat 
of. for, 1645; Johnson on. xxxix, 
251; love of. for mother, xii. 15$; 
on the multitude, 166-7; nAm«, 
origin of. lOi; reprieved. 16^71; 
Rome, in war against, i77-«3; 
•editions of the poor and. 156, 
I57-8* 164; training of. to arms, 
153; trial S' .th of, 1901; 

amont? the iiis. 173*5; in 

V( ' War, 158-61; war, first 

expc: c in, 153-4 

CoaioLANL-s. I^LUTAacH'i Liri of, 

xii, 151-91 
Cormac Condlongas. Khr. ?3!*j, 260 
Cormac, Ki ->3 

Cormorant, , \xxv. 

35« 
Cormorants, habits of. xxix. -ij 14 
Corn. Cicero on growth of. ix. 65; 
on !i of. X. 

J 5 7-8; - of value. 

4'*J» 44*5* parabir of the, xv. 
J08; price of. as affected by 
bounties, x. 303-6, 401-3; prices 
of, w; real value of, 403; Rous- 
seau on. xxxlv. ^10 
Cornaro. 150 note. 

t*!!. • . ^37-8 

r .47 note 

<^ i I . n 6 »* • • 

C' ^ to, XX 

C his critics, xxxtx. 

' on, 391. 3Qj; Hugo 

e of, 37i*a; fiume on 

of. xxvii, i34; 
the drama, xiii, 7: 
.i.Mi wdiks, xxvi, 70; on 1 
xlviii. 6j (163); MsranUy 



rr and, xxxix, \ 
i.i.! 40; Voltaire wu 

'J8 

< — -^- <, 

LunicUu. witc ut L«aar, xii, ^74. 

C' US. letter to, ix. 308 

^ Taiua, prophecy of Phar* 

J14 
. the centurion, xliv, 451 

C- in Pa. Faubtus, xix, 

C< 0, in TIamlbt, xlvl, 93-4, 

C« of eom. in F.litabethao 

C .4 

Corniticiua, in Civil War, jdi« 311 



198 



GENERAL INDEX 



note; fellow candidate of Cicero, 
ix, 83 

Cornwall, tin-mines of, x, 179-81 

Cornwall, Duke of, in Lear, xlvi, 
given part of kingdom, 203, 205, 
207; at Gloucester's, 232-3; with 
Kent and Oswald, 234-7; death 
of, reported, 271, 288; Edmund 
and, with Gloucester's letter, 259; 
reported war with Albany, 229, 
249; with Gloucester, 263-6; with 
Lear, 242, 244, 245, 248 

Cornwall, in Shoemaker's Holiday, 
xlvii, 510 

Cornwallis, Burns on, vi, 55; sur- 
render of, xliii, 180-4 

Coroebus, builder of Eleusis, xii, 51; 
death of, xiii, 117; in sack of 
Troy, 115, 116, 117 

Coronach, by Scott, xli, 765 

Coroner's Juries, in Massachusetts, 

xliii, 78 (57) ^ , .,^ 

Corporal Punishment, of children, 
xxxii, 57-8; xxxvii, 37-9, 40-1, 42, 
43. 59, 64-6, 69-70, 71-2, 90-100; 
in Massachusetts, xliii, 77 (46) 
Corporations, Burke on punishment 
of, xxiv, 288-9; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
432-3; power of Congress to 
create, xliii, 226-30, 237-8; Smith 
on, x, 482-5; trade, 126-38 
Corpre, son of Conaire, xlix, 237-8 
Corpse, in The Frogs, viii, 424 
Corpuscularians, xxxvii, 177 
Correcting, Pascal on, xlviii, 11 (9) 
Correction, acceptance of, ii, 238 
(21); advantages of, xlviii, 174 
(535); in anger, i, 363 (271), 364 
(289-90); of children, xxxvii, no; 
Marcus Aurelius on, of others, 
ii, 19s (10), 279 (4),. 295; reason 
of anger under, xlviii, 34 (80) 
(see also Punishment) 
Corrections, Locke on, xxxvii, 134 
Correggio, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 293 
Correlated Variation, xi, 29-30, 155- 

8; instances of, 209 
Correlation of Physical Forces, 

Faraday on, xxx, 75-87 
Corruption, implies goodness, vii, 
115; Locke on, xxxvii, 57; in 
public affairs, iii, 31 
Corsablis, King, xlix, 128, 140 
Corsets, Locke on, xxxvii, 15-16 
Corsica, Freeman on, xxyiii, 265 
Corso Donati (see Donati) 
Cortese, Tommaso, xxxi, 98 note, 

112 note 
Cortez, Keats on, xli, 920; Raleigh 

on, xxxiii, 327, 341 
Coruncanius, Tiberius, ix, 14, 22^ 

61 ^ ^ 

Coruncanius, Titus, ix, 55 
Corvees, defined, x, 478 
Corvus, M. Valerius, old age of, ix, 
68 



Cory, William Johnson, poems by, 

xlii, 1159-60 
Corybantes, reference to the, viii, 

354 
Corycian Rock, the, viii, 116 
Corydon, and Thyrsis, iv, 33 
Corynaeus, xiii, 219, 405 
Coseguina, eruption of, xxix, 309-10 
Cosimo, St., xxxi, 163 note i 
Cosington, Sir Thomas, xxxv, 66^ 
Cosmography, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

377 
Cosmos, the, ii, 239 (25) ; Milton's 

ideas of, iv, 248-50 (see also 

Universe) 
Cosmus, Duke of Florence, on 

faithless friends, iii, 16; calm 

nature of, iii, no^ 
Cossus, Virgil on, xiii, 240 
Cost of Living (see Food-supply) 
Costanza, Queen of Arragon, xx, 

158 note 5, 176 note 14 
Costiveness, Locke on, xxxvii, 24-7 
Costume (see Dress) 
Cotta, Lucius, Cicero on, xii, 248 
Cotta, Publius, Cicero on, xii, 247- 

248 
Cottage, and palace, vl, 147 
Cotters, life of. Burns on, vi, 160- 

2; Scotch, X, 124 
Cotter's Saturday Night, The, vi, 

142-7; an idyllic^ poem, xxxix, 

314; remark on, vi, 17 
Cottius (see Spurinna) 
Cotton, Charles, and Walton, xv, 

326; Wordsworth on Winter of, 

xxxix, 324-6 
Cotytto, goddess of nocturnal sport, 

iv, 49 
Coulson, Walter, xxv, 60, 79 
Councillors, of kings, iii, 56-7; of 

kings, More on, xxxvi, 150; Penn 

on, i, 369 (360); Webster on duty 

of, xlvii, "722 
Councils, Church, Luther on, xxxvi, 

278; Pascal on, xlviii, 309 (871) 
Councils, Ecclesiastical, Luther on, 

xxxvi, 286-8, 304 
Counsel, boldness in, iii, 34; of 

friends, 73*4, 126; good, excels 

wealth, viii, 275; right of legal, 

in U. S., xliii, 208 (6) ; safer to 

receive than to give, 221 (3) 
Counsel, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 55- 

Counsellors, Confucius on, xliv, 57 
(6) ; evil, in Dante's Hell, xx, 
108-16; of kings, xxxvi, 166-7; 
Machiavelli on, 80-2 

Count, meaning of, xxxiv, 383 

Countenance, expressions of the, 
xxviii, 290-1 

Counterfeiters, in Dante's Hell, xx, 
126-7 

Counterfeiting, punishable by Con- 
gress, xliii, 197 



GENERAL INDEX 



199 



Country, pleasures of the, iv, 32-4; 

and town, relations of, x, 132-7, 

319-22 
Country Glee, xl, 325-6 
Country Laird, Epigram on a, vi, 

533 

Country Lass, The, vi, 467 

Country Life, Bacon on, iii, 93; 
Cicero on, ix, 64-8; Cowley on, 
xxvii, 65-74; Emerson on, v, 52; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 186-7; Penn on, 
i, 359; Smith on, x, 134-6; Smith 
on attractiveness of, 321; Words- 
worth on, xxxix, 285-6 

Country Life, Essay on, Cowley's, 
xxvii, 65-74 ^ „ 

Country Seat, On a Beautiful, vi, 
533 

Country Workmen, Smith on, x, 

24-5 
Courage, Buddha on, xlv, 609-10; 
Confucius on, xliv, 46 (27), 50 
(30), 60 (8), 62 (23, 24); Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 353, 380; in Latin the 
same as virtue, xii, 153; Locke 
on, xxxvii, 102-8; and oppression, 
iii, 40; not roughness, xxxvii, 54; 
without courtesy, xliv, 25 (2), 62 
(24) ; without good breeding, 
xxxvii, 76; worldly, Socrates on, 

^"' 57-8 

Court, fees or, x, 472-3 

Court Mantle, trial by, xxxii, 152 
note 

Court Records, in Massachusetts, 
xliii, 77 (48), 79 (64) 

Court of Session, Extempore in, 
vi, 269 

Courtesy, Bacon on, iii, 36; benevo- 
lence of, V, 220-1, 226; first point 
of, is truth, 216; intellectual qual- 
ity in, 218; oft found in lowly 
sheds, iv, 55; Yu-tzu on, xliv, 6 
(12, 13); Confucius on, 6 (15), 
7 (3), 10 (8), II (18), 12 (22), 
13 (13), 21 (25), 25 (2), 26 (8), 
38 (i), 40 (15). 43 (3), SI (44). 
55 (32)» 58 (13), 61 (11), 69 
(3) 

Courtiers, Burns on, vi, 233; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 57 (2); Montaigne 
on, xxxii, 43; Simon Eyre on, 
xlvii, 481 

Courtin', The, xlii, 1455-7 

Courts, Bacon on, xl, 358; congres- 
sional regulation 01, xliii, 197 
(9); pleasures of, iv, 34; Raleigh 
on, xl, 208; United States, xliii, 
202; Webster on princes', xlvii, 
721-2 (see Judicature) 

Courtship, naturally done by men, 
xlviii, 425 , , . 

Couthony, Mr., on coral-reefs, xxix, 
500 note 

Covenants, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 410- 
i7» 431; the keeping of, 417- 
33 



Coventry, Sir William, and Pepys, 
xxviii, 313 

Coventry, Bishop of, in Edward II, 
xlvi, 10- 1 1 

Coventry, Countess of, beauty of, 
V, 315 

Covered, chapter of the, xlv, 889-91 

Coverley, Sir Roger de, xxvii, 89- 
90; Addison's and Steele's parts 
in, 88, 174-5 

Covetousness, Buddha on, xlv, 685; 
freedom from, 686-7; the cause of 
war, xxviii, 134-5; Epicurus on, 
ii» 153 (95); Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
354. 381; Jesus on, xliv, 393(15); 
Locke on, xxxvii, 97; Mohammed 
on, xlv, 984; More on cause of, 
xxxvi, 196; Pascal on, xlviii, 191, 
224 (663); Penn on, i, 347-8, 391 
(4); Paul, St., on, xlv, 507 (11), 
508 (10); the sin of, in Faustus, 
xix, 220-1 (see Avarice) 

Cowardice, Locke on, xxxvii, 102; 
how developed, 104 

Cowards, insult dying majesty, xvii, 
13 

Cowley, Abraham, Of Agriculture, 
xxvii, 65-74; on Chaucer, xxviii, 
81; xxxix, 175-6; Dryden on, xiii, 
64-5, 432; Dryden on, xxxix, 170 
note 13; life and works, xxvii, 
64; Poems by, xl, 374-8 Pindaric 
Odes of, xxxix, 336; popularity 
of works of, 337 

Cowper, William, Hymns by, xlv, 
575, 576; Poems by, xli, 546- 
67; Emerson on, v, 22; Mill on 
works of, XXV, 16; Verses of 
Selkirk f xxxix, 310-11; The Task 
of, 314 

Cowpox, first appearance of, xxxviii, 
176-7; inoculation for, 177-9, 200- 
I, 209-13, 214-26, 228-9, 231; Jen- 
ner on, 150, 151-231; not fatal or 
infectious, 177-8, 188, 221, 227-8; 
origin and symptoms of, 154-5, 
164-9, 170-1; 179. 190-2, 194-200, 
209-13, 215-16, 220, 223, 228-9; 
return of, 160-1, 171-2; scarlatina 
and, 226-7; and measles, 226 
note; smallpox and, 155-62, 165, 
169-70, 181, 183, 195 note, 197, 
203, 206-9, 211, 213-14, 216 note, 
220, 221, 223-6, 227, 231; sources 
of spurious, 181-93; treatment 
of, 196, 197-9, 211, 219-20, 223, 
229 

Cows, held sacred in Egypt, xxxiii, 

25 . . 
Cox, William, xxxiii, 282, 297, 298 
Coxcomb, Epitaph on a Noted, vi, 

520 
Coya (see Peru) 
Crabs, at St. Paul's, xxix, 20; 

hermit, 482 and note; notopod, 

175 



200 



GENERAL INDEX 



Crabs, giant, of Keeling Islands, 
xxix, 488-9 

Crabs, Fabi^e of the, xvii, 30 

Crabtree, in School for Scandal, 
uncle of Backbite, xviii, 115; at 
Lady Sneerwell's, 118-22; on 
Backbite's epigram, 128; in gossip 
at Sneerwell's, 129-30, 131-2; at 
Teazle's, after the scandal, 181 -3 

Crabwinch, the, xxx, 193 

Craft, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 366, 381; 
revenge's scheming child, viii, no 

Craftiness, Eliphaz on, xliv, 79 (12- 
14); Locke on, xxxvii, 127 (see 
Cunning) iii 

Craigdarroch, Burns on, vi, 385-6, 
404 

Craigieburn Wood, vi, 427, 547 

Crane, in Faust, xix, 181; the 
prudent, iv, 241 

Crane and Wolf, fable of the, xvii, 
II 

Cranes, war with dwarfs alluded to, 
iv, 104 

Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury, 
xxxvi, H9, 122, 126 

Craon, Lord, xxxv, 35 

Crashaw, Richard, Wishes for Mis- 
tress, xl, 369-71; On Saint 
Teresa, 372 

Crassipes, son-in-law of Cicero, ix, 

133 

Crassus, Gaius Licinius, law of, ix, 
40-1 

Crassus, Lucius, the orator, Sid- 
ney on, xxvii, 51-2 

Crassus, Marcus Licinius, Asia con- 
tract, ix, 90; Catiline's Con- 
spiracy and, xii, 237; Cicero and, 
ix, 126, 133; xii, 246-7, 251, 254; 
death of, 298; Dryden on, xiii, 
16-17; influence of, xii, 232; Milo 
and, ix, loi; and the Parthians, 
xxxiii, II 6-1 7; Pompey and, ix, 
102; reference to, xx, 231 note 20 

Crassus, Publius, Roman juriscon- 
sult, ix, 55, 64, 69; son of Mar- 
cus, admirer of Cicero, xii, 254; 
killed in Parthia, 256 

Crassus, brother of Piso Galba*s 
adopted son, victim of Nero, ix, 
197 note 4 

Crassinius, Caius, at Pharsalia, xii, 
312-3 

Cratais, mother of Scylla, xxii, 172 

Craters, of Galapagos Islands, xxix, 
394; of elevation, 511 

Cratinus, reference to, viii, 429 

Craiinus, on Aspasia, xii, 63 ; on 
Pericles, 38-9, 52 

Cratippus, Cicero and, xii, 245; 
Cicero the Younger, and, ix, 18 1-2 

Craving, Buddha on noble and 
ignoble, xlv, 731 

Cravings, of children, xxxvii, 91-4 



Creation, Bacon on the, 111, 8; 
Berkeley on the, xxxvii, 289-96; 
Calvin on the, xxxix, 51-2; cen- 
tres of, xi, 400-3; Dante on man- 
ner of, XX, 315-16 note 9; Descar- 
tes on, xxxiv, 38-9; Dryden on 
the, xl, 398-9; Emerson on the, 
xlii, 131 1 -12; greater than de- 
struction, iv, 245; Hume on, of 
matter, xxxvii, 444 note; Job, de- 
scription of, in, xliv, 134 (4-1 1); 
March, date of, xl, 44; Mill on 
problem of, xxv, 3$; Mohammed 
on the, xlv, 898-9, 910; Moham* 
med on, of man, 889, 895, 900, 
901, 910; music on morning of, 
iv, II (12); Owen on, xi, 14; 
Pascal on the, xlviii, 82-3, 211 
(625); prophecy of, iv, 106, 119; 
Raleigh on the, xxxix, 104, 106- 
II, 1 13-15; reason of the, iii, 300; 
of the soul, 301-2; special, objec- 
tions to, xi, 417, 432-3, 436, 437. 
438, 446, 473-4, 475, 493-4, 5io, 
512, 513, 514, 516, 517, 518, 522; 
special, of species, objections to, 
72, 109, 143, 150, 151, 162, 165, 
168, 174-5, 189, 202, 206, 258-61, 
309-10, 330; special, Owen on, 
14; Raphael relates story of, iv, 
235-246; Uriel describes the, 156 

Creative Genius, Aristophanes on, 
viii, 422 

Creator, Addison on the, xlv, 547 

Crecy, battle of, xxxv, 26-30; losses 
at, 32 and note; order of the 
English at, 23-4; order of French, 
24-6 

Crecy, The Campaign of, xxxv, 

5-33 

Credit, Bacon on assuming, iii, 106; 
Franklin on assuming, i, 79; Lu- 
ther on, xxxvi, 348-9 (see also 
Loans) x 

Credits, cash, in Scotland, x, 247-9, 

255-7 

Credulity, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 389; 
reason of, human, xxiv, 18 

Creech, William, Lament for, vi, 
281-3 

Creeds, best when clearest, xxxiv, 
298; Bronte on, xlii, 11 56; de- 
cline of, reason of, xxv, 242-6; 
xxxiv, 399-402; determined by ac- 
cident of birth, 293 note; Emer- 
son on modern, v, 82; Hobbes on 
belief in, xxxiv, 362; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 135-6; origin of, xxxiv, 
390; Pope on religious, xl, 441; 
Rousseau on usefulness of, xxxiv, 
312; truth of, impossibility to 
finding, 301-8; of Utopia, xxxvi, 
237-50 

Creeper, the, in Tierra d^ Fuego, 
xxix, 253-4 . 



GENERAL INDEX 



201 



Creighton, Robert, Bishop of Wells, 
XV, 396 

Cremona, reference to, iv, 24 (4) 

Creon, brother of Jocasta, sent to 
Delphi by (Edipus, viii, 199; re- 
turns, 199-201; suspected by CEdi- 
pus, 209; disclaims gruilt, 212-6; 
last scene with (Edipus, 239-42; 
King of Thebes, forbids burial of 
Polynices, 244, 248-50; hears of 
burial, 251-3; condemns Antigone, 
255-261; with Haemon, 263-7 
warned against his crimes, 274-7; 
sees death of son, 281; of wife, 
283 

Cresceus, Attilius, Pliny on, ix, 

294-5 
Crespino, the Bargello, xxxi, 212 
Cressy, Drayton on, xl, 228 (see 

Crecy) 
Cretaceous Era, in Europe, xxx, 

Crete, Anchises on, xiii, 135; Ho- 
mer on, xxii, 272 

Creteus, death of, xiii, 323 

Cretheus, son of ^olus, xxii, 158 

Creiisa, ghost appears to -^neas, 
xiii, 129-30; in sack of Troy, 126, 
128 

Crevasses, formation of, xxx, 237, 
248; in glaciers, 225, 230-2 

Crewe, Mrs., lines addressed to, 
xviii, 105-8 

Crichton, Admirable, Hazlitt on, 
xxvii, 291 

Cricket and Grasshopper, by Keats, 
xli, 919 

Crifford, John, xxxv, 402 

Crime, reasons of, Augustine, St., 
on, vii, 28-32; Confucius on causes 
of, xliv, 26 (10); and law, xlviii, 
105 note 2; made by distrust, v, 
58-9; nature hostile to, 101-2; 
prevention of, laws for, xxv, 304; 
and punishment, inseparable, v, 
94; retribution of, 104-5; retribu- 
tion of (see Retribution) ; Stoic 
doctrine of, ix, 333 note i ; trials 
of, in U. S., xliii, 207 (5), 208 
(6) (see also Penology) 

Crimes, great, never single, xxvi, 
166 

Criminal Codes, sanguinary, Emer- 
son on, V, 93 

Criminals, equality of, v, 120; 
public and private, 289; proper 
treatment of, ii, 150 (88); real 
punishment of, 120 (12) 

Crinisus, father of Acestes, xiii, 

Crises, Lowell on, xiii, 1449 
Crisis, the, shows the man, ii, 173 

(157) 
Crispinus, and Horace, xviii, 16 
Crispus, xliv, 471 (8); baptism of, 



xlv, 502 (14); destruction of, iii, 

53 
Cristoforo, Father, Attilio and, xxi, 
188; death, 646; life and charac- 
ter, 55-69; Lucia and, 39-40, 52, 
127, 135-8, 632-4, 627-31; Renzo 
and, 605-13, 632-4; Rodrigo and, 
86-90 
Critias, and Alcibiades, xii, 144,150 
Critical Periods, xxv, 107-8 
Criticism, of art, xxiv, 28; of art, 
Goethe on, xxxix, 275-6, 277-8; 
Bagehot on, xxviii, 201; compari- 
son necessary to, xxvii, 225-6; 
xxviii, 72-4; xxxix, 218-19; deli- 
cacy requisite to just, xxvii, 221- 
4; false method of, xxxix, 304-5; 
fallacies of poetic, xxviii, 67-72; 
Hugo on, xxxix, 404-6; Hume on, 
xxxvii, 314, 379-80, 444-5; John- 
son's ideas of, xxxix, 254-60; 
Johnson on conjectural, 257, 258, 
259-60; of rnanners, morals, and 
religion, xxvii, 232-4; Mazzini on 
mission of, xxxii, 419; Montaigne 
on, xlviii, 306; need of negative, 
xxv, 248; of others (see Censori- 
ousness) ; Pascal's method of, 
xlviii, 16-17; physical organs in 
relation to, xxvii, 221; practice 
necessary to, 224-5; prejudice 
fatal to, 226-7: of poetry, xxxix, 
327-33; possibility 01 fixing stand- 
ard of, xxvii, 229-32; reason in, 
227-8 (see also Taste) 
Critics, Burke on mistake of, xxiv, 
49; Burns on, vi, 339; Dryden 
on, xviii, 14-15, 19; Johnson on, 
xxxix, ^ 251; knowledge requisite 
to, xxiv, 19-21; qualifications of, 
xxvii, 221-8; xxxix, 331-2 
Crito, friend of Socrates, ii, 20, 25, 

47, 51-2, 111-14 
Crito, Plato's, ii, 31-44 
Critobulos, of Cyrene, xxxiii, 91 
Critobulus, and Socrates, ii, 20, 25, 

47 
Critolaus, in Rome, iii, 204-5 
Crobylus, the orator, xii, 211 
Croce, Baccino della, xxxi, 103, 132 
Crocodile, in Book of Job, xliv, 140 
note i; the, creation of, iv, 242; 
Herodotus on the, xxxiii, 37-8 
Crocker, Mrs., and More, xxxvi, 

1 2 1-2 
Crocus, David on the, xH, 506 
Croesus, Chaucer on dream of, xl, 
4;j; death of, xxxii, 5; and Solon, 
iii, 78 
Croghan, George, and Braddock, i, 

140 
Croll, on age of earth, xi, 359; on 
geological time, 339; on glacial 
period, 418-19 
Cromwell, Burke on, xxiv, 196; 
Carlyle on, xxv, 383, 384-7; Car- 



202 



GENERAL INDEX 



lyle's Life of, xxxix, 439; Defoe 
on, xxvii, 145; Emerson on, v, 
240; his fast proclamation^, xliii, 
126 note; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 289; 
Hugo on, xxxix, 374:5» 396-9; as 
Lord Protector, xliii, 113 note, 
123 (33); Milton on, xxviii, 195; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 65 (176); Pope 
on, xl, 448; and the Quakers, 
xxxiv, 73, 74; quotation from, v, 
166; Swift on, xxvii, 102; Wal- 
ler's elegy on, xxxiv, 148-9 

Cromwell, preface to Hugo's, xxxix, 
354-408 

Cromwell, Ode on, xl, 381-4 

Cromwell, Sonnet to, iv, 85 

Cromwell's Return, Ode on, xl, 
381-4 

Cromwell, Sir Richard, xxxvi, 
127 

Cromwell, Sir Thomas, and More, 
xxxvi, 119, 122, 125, 126 

Cronion, father of Venus, xxil, iii; 
name of Zeus, 168; references to, 

^ 36, 37, 53 

Cronos, his curse on Zeus, viii, 187- 
8; overthrown by Zeus, reference 
to, 140; the war against, 163-4 

Crosfield, George, i, 320 

Crosfield, Jane, i, 323 

Cross, the, in architecture, xxiv, 
66-7 

Cross, of Jesus, exhortation to bear 
the, vii, 342; few bearers of, 262- 
3; royal way of the, 263-7; spell 
of the, xix, 52 

Cross Breeding (see Intercrosses) 

Cross Lies, iii, 134 _ 

Cross, Robert, xxxiii, 238, 253 

Crossbow, Helmholtz on the, xxx, 

197-8 
Crossing (see Intercrossing) 
Crossing the Bar, xlii, 1098 
Crossley, Hastings, translator of 

Epictetus, ii, 115 ^ 
Crossness, founded in Vinland, xliii. 

Crow and Fox, fable of, xvli, 12-13 
Crow and Pitcher, fable of, xvii, 

33 
Crowdie Ever Mair, vi, 581 
Crowds, not company, iii, 69 
Crown Servants, Confucius on, xliv, 

45 (20) ; Tzu-hsia on, 66 (13) 
Crowns, Hippolytus on usurped, viii, 

329-30; Jesus on, iv, 387 
Crucifixion, The, xliv, 422-3 
Cruelty, in children, xxxvii, 108-9; 

in commanders, xxxvi, 58-9; 

Hobbes on, xxxiv, 356,^ 424; in 

princes, xxxvi, 56-7; of single and 

married men, iii, 23; well and 

ill employed, xxxvi, 33 
Cruelty, Mr., juryman in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 101-2 
Criiger, Dr., on orchids, xi, 203-4 
Cruikshank, Miss, To, vi, 350-1 



Cruikshank, Mr., Epitaph for, vi, 

^ 303 

Crusaders, in Dante's Paradise, xx, 

363 

Crustacea, South American, xxix, 
175-6 

Crying, ^ of children, Locke on, 
xxxvii, 98-100 

Crystallization, different forms of, 
xxx, 30-1, 36 

Crystals, perforated, xxix, 162-3 

Ctesius, son of Ormenus, xxii, 219 

Ctesiphon, Emerson on, v, 236; in- 
dictment of, xii, 217 

Ctesippus, xxii, 314; death of, 315; 
and Demosthenes, xii, 209; with 
Socrates, ii, 47; and Ulysses, xxii, 
292 

Ctimene, daughter of Anticleia, xxii, 
217-18 

Cuba, Independence of, xliii, 467-8, 
470 (i), 476 (16); slavery in, v, 
48 

Cucao, Chiloe Islands, xxix, 313 

Cuccagua, land of the, xxi, 200 note 

Cuchulainn, xlix, 254 

Cuckoo, habits of the, xxix, 63-4; 
instincts of, xi, 270-5; Words- 
worth on the, xxxix, 318-19 

Cuckoo, To the, by Michael Bruce, 
xii, 583-4 

Cuckoo, To the, by Wordsworth, 
xii, 656-7 

Cudworth, Dr., xiii, 31; xxxvii, 177 

Cudworth's Risk, v, 283 

Cuentas, Sierra de las, xxix, 162 

Cuevas, Luis Gonzaga, xliii, 309 

Culan, Baron de, xxxviii, 39 

Cultivated Classes, rage of the, v, 69 

Culture, Arnold on, xxviii, 222; 
Confucius on, xliv, 16 (14); Hux- 
ley on, xxviii, 222 ; and morality, 
Rousseau on, xxxiv, 164; neces- 
sity of valor in our, v, 127-8; 
Rousseau on progress of ,_ xxxiv, 
181: proper aim of, xxxii, 293; 
in relation to freedom and virtue, 
232, 250-1, 269-70, 282-3, 287-91; 
Schiller on office of, 258-9; Thoreau 
on, xxviii, 431; timidity of our, 
V, 99 

Culture and Science, Huxley s, 
xxviii, 215-32 

Cumberland, Goldsmith on, xii, 518- 

^9 
Cuming, on sheels, xxix, 414, 516 
Cunizza, xx, 322 note 6 
Cunning, Bacon on, iii, 60-3; fable 

on, xvii, 35; Locke on, xxxvii, 

127; Penn on, i, 354 (150-1); 

Webster on, xlvii, 731 
Cunningham, Alex., To, vi, 326 
Cunningham, Alexander, song to, 

vi, 576-7 
Cunningham, Allan, poems by, xli, 

802-3 
Cupavo, son of Cycnus, xiii, 333 



GENERAL INDEX 



203 



Cupenhts, death of, xiii, 414 
Cujjid, assumes form of Ascanius, 

xiii, 99-100; blindness of, v, 311; 

Dante on worship of, xx, 316; 

and Psyche, iv, 73 
Cupid and Campaspe, xl, 212 
Cupidit)^ (see Covetousness) 
Curan, in King Lear, xlvi, 229-30 
Curianus, Assidius, ix, 272-4 
Curiatii, reference to the, xx, 308 

note 9 
Curio, Gaius Scribonius, xx, 119 

note 10; and Antony, xii, 334-5, 

337; and Caesar, 280, soo^ 301-2; 

and Memmius, ix, 156; and Pom- 

pey, loi, 102 
Curiosity, Augustine, St., on, vii, 

29, 197-9; Burke on, xxiv, 29-30; 

in children, xxxvii, 111-14; folly 

of, vii, 215 (i); Goethe on, xix, 

17. 33^f 339; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
354> 389-90; Kempis on, vii, 272 
(4), 299 (i); Locke on, in chil- 
dren, xxxvii, 94; Marcus Aure- 
lius on, ii, 207 (4); Montaigne 
on, xxxii, 44; noble and mean, 
xxviii, 117; Pascal on, xlviii, 13 
(18), 60 (152); Penn on, i, 402 
(135); Tzu-kung on, xliv, 62 (24) 

Curious-Impertinent, history of the, 

xiv, 322-63, 368-73 
Curious Persons, envious, iii, 24 
Curius, Manius, Cicero on, ix, 14, 

18, 84; and Coruncanius, 22; old 
age of, 66-7; reference to, iv, 387; 
in war with Pyrrhus, ix, 61 

Curie, Dr., xv, 398 

Curnach, xlix, 233 

Currency, debasement of the, x, 34; 
depreciation of the 589-90; effect 
of debasement on rents, 40 (see 
Money) 

Curricle, Lady Betty, epigram on, 
xviii, 128 

Curse, of Faust, xix, 62-3 

Curses, Chaucer on, xl, 29 

Curtius,^ Quintus, on Alexander, 
xxxvii, 374-5; Cicero and, ix, 118 

Curtis, John, i, 276 

Curule-chair, defined, xx, 429 

Curves, more beautiful than angles, 
xxiv, 98-9, 103 

Cusco, Milton on, iv, 333 

Cuscrad, son of Conchobar, xlix, 
248 

Cush, the Benjamite, Psalm con- 
cerning words of, xliv, 152 

Cushing's Battery, at Gettysburg, 
xliii, 359» 373» 398, 405, 406 

Custom, Calvin on, xxxix, 41-2; 
Descartes on ease of following, 
xxxiv, 14; Emerson on defiance 
of. V, 73; Harvey on, xxxviii, 106; 
"honored in breach," xlvi, 104-5; 
Hume on, xxxvii, 327, 339-41, 
349» 394; and innovations, iii, 65; 



and justice, xlviii, 105, 107 (297), 
no (309, 312); and manners, 
xxxvii, 376; Mill on, xxv, 208, 
276-7; in modes of living, v, 54; 
and nature, iii, loi; obedience to, 
xlviii, 1 13-14; obedience to, a re- 
sult of ignorance, xxxiv, 388; 
overcome by custom, vii, 236 (2) ; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 39 (89), 40 (90, 
92, 93), 41 (97); in religion, 91 
(245), 93 (252); not resisted, be- 
comes necessity, vii, 130; Shake- 
speare on, xlvi, 157-8; Winthrop 
on, xliii, 90-1 (see also Conform- 
ity, Habit, Precedent) 

Custom, Bacon's Essay on, iii, 
103-4 

Customs, Augustine, St., on, vii^ 
42; Burke on, xxiv, 88, 304-5; 
Goethe on, xix, 75; Woolman on, 
i, 201 (see Duties) 

Customary Conjunction, xxxvii, 342, 
349, 3^6-7y 439-40 

Cuttle-fish, Darwin on habits of, 
xxix, 17-18; eyes of, xi, 200-1; 
supposed to have no heart, xii, 
16 note 

Cuvier, on conditions of life, xi, 
218; on the Diodon, xxix, 24; on 
monkeys, xi, 356; reference to, v, 
18 

Cybele, mother of the Gods, iv, 43; 
viii, 352; ix, 405 note; xiii, 135; 
and the ships of ./Eneas, 299-300 

Cyclades, the, described, xiii, 135 

Cyclic-Uproar, xlv, 617 

Cycloid, invention of the, xxxiv, 129 

Cyclops, the, in the ^neid, xiii, 
1 51 -3; and the Phaeacians, xxii, 
85; of Sindbad, xvi, 264-7; and 
Ulysses, xxii, 122-34; at Vulcan's 
forge, xiii, 286 

Cycnus, and Phaeton, xiii, 333 

Cydon, and Clytius, xiii, 337 

Cyllene, hoar, iv, 45 

Cyllenius, messenger of Jove, xiii, 
85 (see also Mercury) 

Cymodoce, the nymph, xiii, 334 

Cymothoe, reference to, xiii, 80 

Cynemernes, in Utopia, xxxvi, 246 

Cynesians, Herodotus on the, xxxiii, 
21 

Cynicism, Comus on, iv, 65; Epic- 
tetus on true, ii, 158-9, 160-1; 
tolerated in Athens, iii, 204 

Cynics (see Diogenes, Demetrius, 
Antisthenes) 

Cynosarges, at Athens, xii, 5 

Cynthia, and the boar of Calydon, 
xiii, 253-4; and the Latmian shep- 
herd, xl, 248; the moon called, 
237, 248, 253; name of Diana, 
xxxix, 66; reference to, iv, 36 

Cyprian Epic, Herodotus on, xxxiiii 
57 



204 



GENERAL INDEX 



Cyprian, St., xxxix, 40 note 30; 
xxxvi, 140; Luther on, 280; on 
sin, xxxix, 42 

Cypris (see Aphrodite) 

Cyprus, conquered first by Ama- 
sis, xxxiii, 91 

Cyrene, Amasis and, xxxiii, 90-1; 
School of, iii, 204 

Cyrus, the Elder, Bacon on, iii, 
136; and Cassandane, xxxiii, 5; 
the cities of, iv, 395; first post 
ascribed to, ix, 387 note; garden- 
ing of, xxxvii, 187; on immortal- 
ity, ix, 75; and the Tews, xxxii, 
204; xlviii, 215 (633); liberality 
of, xxxvi, 56; Machiavelli on, 
20-1, 22, 87; on his old age, ix, 
56; Pascal on, xlviii, 239 (701); 
prophecy of, 245; and Scipio, 
xxxvi, 52; Sidney on, xxvii, 13, 
20; and Tomyris, xx, 194; the 
young soldier of, xxxii, 85 

Cyrus, the Younger, and Aspasia, 
xii, (>z\ park of, ix, 68; Xenophon 
on, 68 

Cytheris, and Antony, xii, 341 

DiC Derga's Hostel, Destruction 
OF, xlix, 209-64 

Dacia, Freeman on, xxyiii, 275 

Dacier, Dryden on, xiii, 12 

D?edalus, Dante on, xx, 320 note 15; 
Virgil on, xiii, 211-12 

Daeghrefn, death of, xlix, "j^ 

Daer, Lord, Lines on Meeting, vi, 

25^-3 
Daffodils, The, xli, 654-5 
Daffodils, To, xl, 347 
Dag, son of Hogni, xlix, 385-7 
Dagon, god of the Philistines, iv, 

102, 419, 420-30 
Dahish, the Efrit, xvi, 320-4 
Daigne, the apothecary, xxxviii, 24 
Dainty Davie, vi, 502 
Dairy Products, price of, x, 198-9 
Daisies. Shelley on, xli, 865; for 

simplicity, vi, 431, 500 
Daisy, Story of the, xvii, 316-20 
Daisy, To the, xli, 655-6 
Dalibard, M., i, 154, 155 
Dalila, wife of Samson, iv, 424, 428- 

9, 432, 437-43 
Dalmatia, Freeman on, xxviii, 265 
Dalrymple, Dr., reference to, vi, 

Damans, xiiv, 470 (34) 

Damiano, Pietro, xx, 378 and note 

Damiano, St., xxxi, 163 note i 
Damien, reference to, xli, 544 
Damis, in Tartuffe, disinherited, 
xxvi, 247; Dorine and, 198, 2^^- 
4; Loyal and, 275, 2-7^, 277; Per- 
nelle and, 190, 191-2; Tartuffe 
and, 237, 241-2, 243-6, 268 
Daraoetas, reference to, iv, 75 
Damon, ostracism of, xii, 81; 



Pythias and, Browne on, iiI, 333; 
teacher of Pericles, xii, 39 

Damon and Sylvia, vi, 439 

Damonides, of CEa, xii, 45 

Dampier, on gold countries, xiii, (t2 

Dana, Francis, xxiii, 3 

Dana, Richard Henry, Jr., life and 
works, xxiii, 3-4; Two Years Be- 
fore THE Mast, 5-391; Twenty- 
four Years After, 395-426 

Danae, founder of Ardua, xiii, 257; 
Jove and, vii, 19; xlvi, 51; xlvii, 
586, 588; Marlowe on, xlvi, 29; 
Sophocles on, viii, 2'j2\ Suckling 
on, xl, 362; Tennyson on, xiii, 
1004 

Danaos, an Egyptian, xxxiii, -^5; 
daughters of, viii, 185-6; xiii, 
343; xxxiii, 86-7, 91 

Danby, Earl of, Dedication to, xviii, 
5-10; George Herbert and, xv, 396 

Dancer, in Faust, xix, 181^ 

Dancing, Confucius on, xliv, 9 (i); 
Cowley on, xxvii, 69; Emerson on 
beauty of, v, 313; among the 
Germans, xxxiii, 109; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 50, 182 

Dancing-Master, in Faust, xix, 181 

Dandini, on Socrates, etc., v, 279 

Danger, admiration^ excited by, ix, 
364; Bacon on, iii, 59; Goethe on, 
xix, 340J Locke on insensibility 
to, xxxvii, 102; of others, pleasure 
in, xxiv, 43-4; passions excited 
by, 36; way of, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 46, 221 

Daniel, the prophet, Dante on, xx, 
240 and note 12; on dreams, xl, 
43; on God, xxxvi, 345; learning 
of, iii, 209; Luther on, xxxvi, 
346; Milton on, iv, 384; Nebu- 
chadnezzar and,^ XX, 299 note i; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 236; prophecies 
of, 249 (722-3), 259 

Daniel, Arnault, Dante on, xx, 255 
and note 2 

Daniel, Samuel, sonnets by, xl, 22Z-^ 

Daniel, the Saxon, xxxiii, 294, 299 

Dante Alighieri, ancestry 01, xx, 
350 notes I and 2; Arnold on 
selections from, xxviii, 73, 80; 
banishment of, xx, 180 and note 
10, 229 note 12; banishment pre- 
dicted, 43, 64-6, 357-61; Beatrice 
and (see Beatrice) ; Browning on 
the painting of, xiii, 11 38-9; at 
Campaldino, xx, 166 note 8; Car- 
lyle on, xxv. ^61; Casella and, iv, 
^z; Cayalcanti and, xx, 4^ note 
6; Cellini on line of, xxxi, 316; 
date of descent into Hell, xx, 90 
note; Divine Comedy; Dryden on, 
xxxix, 162; Emerson on, v, 186; 
English love of, 450; father of, 
XX, 351 note 2: as a Franciscan, 
70 note 9; Goethe on, xxxii, 412; 



GENERAL INDEX 



205 



Hazlitt on, xxvii, 286; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 367, 372-3; Huxley on, 
xxviii, 225; life and works, xx, 
V4; Macaulay on, xxvii, 380; 
Milton on, xxviii, 180; on the 
ocean, xliii^ 31; on St. Peter's 
keys, xxviii, 1 12-13; in poet's 
band, xx, 19; religious belief of, 
391. 397; rescue of child from 
drowning, 79 note; Ruskin on 
creed of, xxviii, 115; Sainte- 
Beuve on, xxxii, 127, 133, 137; 
Shelley on, xxvii, 348, 351, 364, 
365» 366, 367; Sidney on, 0; 
Thoreau on, xxviii, 433; Words- 
worth on sonnets of, xli, 697 
Danti, Vincenzo, xxxi, 438 note 
Danube, Herodotus on the (Ister), 

xxxiii, 21; Tacitus on the, 95 
Danvers, Charles, and George Her- 
bert, XV, 397 
Danvers, Jane, wife of George Her- 
bert, xv, 397, 401, 402, 413,423-4 
Danvilliers, siege of, xxxviii, 20-2 
Daohne, and Apollo, xl, 386; iv, 
04; grove of, iv, 164; Webster 
on, xlvii, 758 
Daphne, in Tartuffe, xxti, 194 
Dapper, in The Alchemist, xlvii, 
528-35, 576-7, 579* 581-5. 621-2, 
623-5 
Darby, Earl of, and Dryden, xiii, 

430 
Dardanus, born in Italy, xiii, 137; 

Electra's son, 276; founder of 

Troy, XX, 20 note 5; Virgil on, 

xiii, 250 
Dare-aot-Iye, Mr., xv, 285, 287 
Dares, death of, xiii, 407; and En- 

tellus, 194-8; xxxix, 182 
Dares, Trojan priest, Caxton on, 

xxxix, 
Daring, Graham on, xl, 369; Locke 

on,^ xxxvii, 102; Shakespeare on, 

xlvi, 320 
Darius, prophecy of, xlviii, 252 
Darius III, Dryden on, xl, 403; 

empire of, xxxvi, 17-18; Greek 

cities and, 23; Raleigh on, xxxix, 

103 
Dark Ages, Shelley on the, xxvii, 

362-3 
Dark-land, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 301 
Darkness, in architecture, xxiv, 71; 
children's fear of, xxxvii, 126; 
sublimity and, xxiv, 70-1; sublim- 
ity of, 120-5; terror in idea of, 
63: usefulness of, xxviii, 431; 
"visible," iv, q2 
Darkness, Byron's poem, xli, 816 
Darkness, Our Lady of, xxvii, 340 
Darley, George, Loveliness op 

Love, xli. 938-9 
Darning-Needle, The, xvii, 334 
Darwin, Charles Robert, Origin of 
Species, xi; sketch of life and 



works, 5-8; VOYAGI OF BZAGLl, 

xxix 

Darwin, Erasmus, xi, 5, 10 note 

Darwin, George, on lunar disturb- 
ances, XXX, 296-7; on long period 
tides, 313 

Darwin, Horace, on lunar disturb- 
ances, XXX, 296-7 

Darwinism, Lowell on, xxviii, 475 
note 

Datarius, Papal, xxxvi, 298 note, 
300 

Dathan, reference to, xliv, 283 (17) 

Datis, general of Darius, xii, 84 

Dativo, the pedagogue, xxxviii, 14- 
15 

Datur Hora Quieti, xli, 772-3 

Daunton Me, To, vi, 319-20 

Dauphin, heir-apparent of France, 
XXXV, 229 

Davaine, Dr., xxxviii, 382 

Davenant, Dr., Bishop of Salisbury 
XV, 399 

D'Avenant, Sir William, Dawn 
Song, xl, 364; Swift on, xxvii, 
117 

David, and the Amorites, xliii, no; 
Bagehot on, xxviii, 175-6; Bums 
on, vi, 240; on Christ, xliv, 432 
(25-31); Dante on, xx, 186-7; in 
Dante's Paradise, 372; faults of, 
XV, 263; God's covenant with, 
xliv, 259 (3-4), 260 (20-51); Go- 
liath and, xxxvi, 49; Kempis on, 
vii, 351 (8); Locke on stories of, 
xxxvii, 142-3; Mephibosheth and, 
xliii, no; Milton on, iv, 353»398; 
Mohammed on, xlv, 928; Nathan 
and, xxvii, 27; one of nine 
worthies, xxxix, 21 ; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 91 (243), 235 (690), 236, 
269 (752); Paul on, xliv, 459 
(22); on the Sabbath, xliv, 373 
(3-4); sword of, XXXV, 198; and 
the tabernacle, xliv, ^18; and the 
temple, 445 (46) ; in valley of 
death, xv, 67, 136; water, story 
of, i, 297-8; V, 130; Winthrop on, 
xliii, TOO 

David, Psalms of, xliv, 148-97, 209- 
35. 256-7, 273, 276-7, 288-92, 312, 
3^3, 317. 319. 323-36; remarks 
on, 146; Sidney on, xxvii, 11, 14 

David, Song to, xli, 496-510 

David, King, of Britain, xxxv, 264 

Davie, Epistle to, vi, 70-4 

Davie, Second Epistle to, vi, 113- 
114 

Davies, Charms of Lovely, vi, 429- 
30 

Davies, Miss, Epigram on, vi, 429 

Davies, Mr., on puerperal fever, 
xxxviii. 241 

Davies, Tom, Lamb on, xxvii, 314 
note 



206 



GENERAL INDEX 



Davy, Sir Humphry, and conserva- 
tion, law of, XXX, 183; Faraday 
and, 3; on frictional heat, 205-6; 
potassium, discovered by, 124 
note 
Dawn Song, by D'Avenant, xl, 364 
Dawn Song, by Shakespeare, xl, 
^274 

Day, Is Coming, The, xlii, 1242 
Day, Is Done, The, xlii, 1326-7 
Day is Past and Over, The, xlv, 
^554-5 

Day Returns, vi, 331^^ 
Days, by Emerson, xlii, 1294-5 
Days that Were, xlii, 1245 
Dead, Brynhild on the, xlix, 395; 
Calvin on masses for the, xxxix, 
39; grief for, xxvii, 300; knowl- 
edge of the, xxxix, 96-7; Luther 
on masses for, xxxvi, 322-3; Pas- 
cal on prayers for the, xlviii, 344-5 
Dead Man's Lane, in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 130 
Dean of Faculty, The, vi, 584 
Death, Adam's first view of, iv, 
334; Addison on contemplation 
of, xxvii, 84-5; ^schylus on, viii, 
75 ; Arabian inscriptions on, xvi, 
315-19, ^^e-l. 331-2, 334-6, 443, 
460; Aristophanes on, viii, 462; 
Aristotle on, xxxviii, 89; Bar- 
bauld on, xli, 568; Beaumont on, 
xlvii, 677; Beowulf on, xlix, 45; 
Browne on, iii, 263, 303-4, 305, 
309, 339; Browning, Robert, on, 
xlii, 1106-7; Browning, Elizabeth 
B., on, xli, 968-70; Bryant on, 
xlii, 1262-4; Buddhist ideas of, 
xlv, 678, 697, 700, 752; Bunyan's 
allegory of, xv, 161-2, 314-22; 
Burke on idea of, xxiv, 36; Burns 
on, vi, 67, 313; Byron on fear of, 
xviii, 422 ; Calderon on, xxvi, 65 ; 
children mitigate, iii, 20; Cicero 
on, ix, 70-4; Clough on, xlii, 1166; 
comes to all alike, xxvii, 82 note 
2;^ Confucius on, xliv, 35 (11); 
Diogenes on, ii, 180 (187); 
Drummond on, xl, 335; Dry- 
den on, xviii, 93, 94; Ecclesiastes 
on, xliv, 347 (i), 350 (5-6); Em- 



erson on, V, 135, 30^-5; Epictetus 
on, ii, 131 (44, 45), 135 (55), 
158 (112), 164 (130, 131), 165 



(132, 134, 135), 167 (139), 174 
(161), 181 (188); Euripides on, 
in misery, viii, 331; Faust on, xix, 
61-2; fear of, disposes to peace, 
xxxiv, 385; "felicity of wretched 
men," xlvi, 67; Fitzgerald on, xli, 
973-5, 978, 981 ; friends lessen 
fear of, iii, 75; friendship takes 
sting from, ix, 16; Goethe on, xix, 
419; Gray on, xl, 457-8, 466; 
Grenville on, xlii, 1045; Hamlet's 
soliloquy on, xlvi, 135; xxxiv, 
135-6; the happiest, ii, 181 (189); 



Harvey on cause of, xxxviii, \2^\ 

Harvey on two kinds of, 115; 
Henley's wish for, xlii, 1258; 
Herbert on, xl, 351-2; Hindu con- 
ception of, xlv, 806-7; Job on, 
xliv, i^-y, 94 (10-12), 106 (23-6); 
Kempis on meditations of, vii, 
239-41; knowledge of world after, 
xxxix, 96-7; Longfellow on, xlii, 
1330; love and, 1076; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 202 (11), 203 (12), 
204 (14), 205 (17), 207 (3), 210 
(7), 215 (5, 6), 216 (14), 222 
(47, 48), 223 (50), 224 (4), 232 
(29), 234 (2), 238 (24), 239 (28), 
244 (47), 247 (10), 248 (19), 250 
(^Z2), 232 (50), 259 (18), 260 
(25), 261 (31), 267 (58), 268 (3), 
272 (21), 274 (33), 285 (29), 288 
(36), 289 (3), 300 (5), 303 (2^), 
305 (31, 34, 35), 306 (36); Mil- 
ton on, IV, 168, 324, 335, 360, 459; 
Mohammed on, xlv, 989; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 7-8, 9-28; Mon- 
taigne's conceptions, Pascal on, 
xlviii, 24, 401; More on, xxxvi, 
126; Nashe on, xl, 265-6; to be 
overcome by Christ, iv, 144; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 63 (166, 168), 64 
(169), 65 (175), 71. 79 (210), 80 
(215-16), 153 (447), 335-43; Penn 
on, i, 380 (500-5); Pope on knowl- 
edge of, xl, 435; Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 99, 103; Raleigh on 
thoughts of, xl, 207; Roman ex- 
pression for, ^ xii, 243 ; Rossetti, 
C. G., on, xlii, 1228, 1229; Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 268-9; Schiller 
on, xxvi, 459; scholar's dread of, 
xix, 28; Shakespeare on, xl, 275; 
Shakespeare on fear of, xlvi, 297; 
Shelley on, xviii, 307, 308, 350-1; 
xli, 855, 892; Shirley on, xl, 359, 
360; Socrates on, ii, 15-16, 24, 26, 
27-8, 50-9, 61; Sophocles on, v, 
126; viii, 259; Swinburne on, xlii, 
1253; terror of, in animals, xxxiv, 
181; Utopian ideas of, xxxvi, 241- 
2; Valley of Shadow of, xv, 65- 
70, 248-52; Vaughan on, xl, 356; 
"where is thy victory," xlv, 525 
(55); White on, xli, 938; Whit- 
man on, xlii, 1503-4, 1508; "who 
kings and tars dispatches," xli, 
515; Woolman on nearness to, i, 
206-7 
Death, in Paradise Lost, iv, 127-30, 
136, 300-5, 309-10; Burke on, xxiv, 

53 
Death, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

9-11 
Death Bed, The, xli, 935 
Death and Doctor Hornbook, vi, 

79-84 
Death, by Donne, xl, 313 
Death of a Fair Infant, On the, 

iv, 18-21 



GENERAL INDEX 



207 



Death and the Old Man, a fable, 

xvii, 40 
Death of Poor Mailie, vi, 43-5 
Death, Prayer in Prospect of, vi, 

Death, Song of, vi, 452 
Death Stands Above Me, xli, 930 
Death, The Terror of, xli, 921-2 
Death's Messengers, xlv, 701-7 
Deaths of Little Children, 

Hunt's, xxvii, 299-303 
Debasement, of currency, x, 34; 

effect on money rents, 40 
Debates, Penn on, i, 352 (133-6) 
Debauchery, Burns on, vi, 193; 

courage and, xxxvii, 57 
De Bouillon, Cardinal Retz on, v, 

317 
Debt, Emerson on, v, 100; Franklin 

on, i, 95; imprisonment for, in 

Massachusetts, xliii, 75 {33) ; Penn 

on collecting, i, 343 (48) ; in 

Utopia, xxxvi, 201 
Decebalus, King of Dacia, ix, 388 

notes 2, 4 
Deceit, Pascal on sources of, xlviii, 

37-8; punishment of, in Hell, xx, 

47; Whitman on, xxxix, 425 
December, Thou Gloomy, vi, 456 
Decemviri, Roman, ix, 290 note 2 
Decency, Mill on offences against, 

XXV, 307 
Decii, deaths of the, ix, 73 
Decius, Publius, Cicero on, ix, 61 
Decius, Roman Emperor, persecu- 
tions under, xxxviii, 412 
Decker (see Dekker) 
Declaration of Independence, xliii, 

160; Lincoln on, 337 
Declaration, The Mecklenburg, 

xliii, 166-7 
Declaration of Right, Burke on, 

xxiv, 164-5, 180-1 
Declaration of Rights, xliii, 157-9 
Decow, Isaac, i, 56-7 
Decurii, Roman, ix, 203 note 
Dedication, A, by Burns, vi, 221-4 
Dee, Dr., the magician, xlvii, 564 

note 4 
Deer, ages, various of the, xxxv, 

361; in Brazil, xxix, 59-60 
Defects, compensation for, v, 102; 

Hugo on, xxxix, 406; Shakespeare 

on single, xlvi, 105 
Defence, national, expense of, x, 

468-71 
Deference, Emerson on, v, 217; 

Pascal on, xlviii, iii (317) 
Definitions, Burke on, xxiv, 12; 

Goethe on, xix, 126-7; Hobbes on, 

xxxiv, 339-40, 346; Hume on, 

xxxvii, 371-2; Johnson on, xxxix, 

200-4; Pascal on, xlviii, 410, 411, 

429-30, 43^-5» 440-1 
Defoe, Daniel, Education of 

Women, xxvii, 158-61; Emerson 



on, V, 450; on Englishmen, 353; 
Essay on Projects, i, 14; Frank- 
lin on, i, 23-4; life and works, 
xxvii, 142; Shortest Way with 
Dissenters, xxvii, 143-57 

Deformity, Bacon's Essay on, iii, 
112-13 

Deformity, Browne on, iii, 280; 
Burke on, xxiv, 87; envy and, iii, 

24 
Degerando, Landor on, v, 329-30 
Deglutition, Harvey on, xxxviii, 92 
Degradation, geological (see Denu- 
dation) 
Deianira, and Nessus, xx, 52 and 

note 
Deidamia, Dante on, xx, 110, 239 
Deil, Address to the, vi, 147-51 
Deil's Awa wi' the Exciseman, vi, 

467 
Deiotarus, Cicero on, ix, 141, 142, 

146, 149, 153, 156; in war of 

Antony and Octavius, xii, 384 
Deiphile, in Limbo, xx, 339 
Deiphobe, the Sibyl, and vEneas, 

xiii, 212-42 
Deiphobus, in Hades, xiii, 228-9; 

at Trojan horse, xxii, 55 
Deism, Franklin on, i, 57; Mill on, 

XXV, 35, 50; Pascal on, xlviii, 

184, 186; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 289, 

290-1, 293, 298, 309-10 
Dejection, Coleridge on, xxv, 89; 

defined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 355; 

results of, 367 
Dejection: An Ode, xli, 745-9 
Dejection, Stanzas Written in, 

xli, 848-9 
Dekker, Thomas, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 

291; life and works, xlvii, 445; 

Poems by, xl, 325-7; Shoemaker's 

Holiday, xlvii, 447-515 
Delaware, Lord, at Crecy, xxxv, 23; 

at Poitiers, 42 
Delay, Bacon on, iii, 59-60; Penn 

on, i, 372 (390) ; Shakespeare on, 

xl, 268 
Delectable Mountains, in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 59, 124 
Delia: An Ode, vi, 359-60 
Deliberation, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

356-7; language of, 358 
Delicacy, as cause of beauty, xxiv, 

99-100; of imagination, Hume on, 

xxvii, 221-24 
Delight, Burke on, xxiv, 33-4; Hobbes 

on, xxxiv, 352-3; how caused by 

pain, xxiv, 1 13-14; Shelley on, xli, 

847-8 
Delilah (see Dalila) 
Delille, Hugo on, xxxix, 388-9 
Delio, in Duchess of Malfi, xlvii, 

721, 723; in presence chamber 

scene, 724, 726-7; learns Anto- 
nio's marriage, 740; advises An* 



208 



GENERAL INDEX 



tonio, 742-3; despatched to Rome, 
745; with Antonio, after interval, 
754-S; oil Malatesti, 768; on Bo- 
sola, 769; with Julia in Rome, 
750-1; on Antonio's betrayal, 751; 
with Antonio in Milan, 793-6, 
807-9; in final scene, 816 
Delius, and Cleopatra, xii, 352-3, 

382 
Delos, island of, xiii, 133-4 
Delphi, navel of earth, v, 347; 
building of temple of, xxxiii, 90 
Delphian Oracle, yEschylus on am- 
biguity of, viii, 51; Emerson on, 
xlii, 1299; prophets of, viii, 115- 
16 
Delphos, King, viii, 116 
Delrio, Manzoni on, xxi, 553 
Deltas, Lyell on, xxxviii, 423 
Deluded Swain, the Pleasure, vi, 

506 
Deluge, Calvin on the, xxxix, 42; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 176; Milton on, 
iv, 340-3; Pascal on, xlviii, 211 
(625), 220 (644)... 
Deluges, Bacon on, iii, 143 
Demades, Alexander and, xii, 217; 
death of, 224; Demosthenes and, 
203, 206, 221; fickleness of, 207 
Demagogues, Hamilton on, xliii, 215 
Demand, effectual and absolute, x, 

59 

Demand and Supply, equalization 

of, X, 60-1; of laborers in regard 

to population, 84-5; as regulators 

of price, 5Q-60 

Demaratus, the Spartan, xii, 32 

Dcmas, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

^ III-I3* 313 . .... 

Dcraeter, functions of, viii, 359-60; 

HadeSj ruler of, xxxiii, 63; hymn 

to, viii, 430; lasion and, xxii, 74; 

the Isis of Egyptians, xxxiii, 33, 

81; mystic rites of, 86-7; Rhamp- 

sinitos and, 63 
Demetrius, the Cynic, and Nero, ii, 

132 (45) , ^ 
Demetrius, the Grammarian, and the 

philosophers, xxxii, 51 
Demetrius, of Phaleron, and ^sop, 

xvii, 2; on Aristides, xii, 80, 81 
Demetrius, son of Philip II, iii, 53 
Demetrius, the silversmith, xliv, 

474-5 

Democracy, Aristotle on, xxiv, 273 
note; Burke on, 241-2, 272-3; edm- 
cation and, xxv, 112; Emerson on, 
V, 254; justified by example of 
Lincoln, xxviii, 461; Machiavelli 
on, xxv, 384; Mill on, 11 1, 124, 
149, 204-6, 2j2\ James Mill on, 
71-2; nobility and, iii, 36-7; Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 226\ supposed 
shortcomings of, xxviii, 443 

Democracy, Essay on, Lowell's, 
xxviii, 464-85 



Democracy in America, Mill on, 
xxv, 124-5; James Mill on, 131 

Democritus, Browne on, iii, 330; 
death of, ii, 207 (3) ; Huxley on, 
xxviii, 22j\ on kitchen gardens, 
X, 163; in Limbo, xx, 20 note 9 

Demodocus, the minstrel, xxii, 105- 
6, III, 117; Milton on, iv, 22 

Demogorgon, xlvii, 543 note 14; 
Milton on, iv, 135 

Demoleiis, and <^neas, xiii, 191 

Demons, Hobbes on possession by, 
xxxiv, 370-2; Milton on, iv, Z7 ,, 

Demonstration, Hume on, xxxvii, 
351 note, 443-4; judgment and 
fancy in, xxxiv, 364-5; Pascal's 
method of, xlviii, 410-13, 428-44 

Demophon, steward of Alexander, 
xxxii, 58 

Demophoon, Dante on, xx, 324 

Demosthenes, on action, iii, 33; 
^schines on, ix, 224-5; Alexan- 
der demands, xii, 216-17; early 
ambition, 200; opposes Antipater, 
220; compared with other Athe- 
nian orators, 203; Athens honors, 
223-4; birth and education, 199; 
Carlyle on,^ xxv, 394-5; Cicero 
compared with, xii, 198-9, 267-73; 
xxxix, 166; Cicero on, xii, 245; 
condemnation and banishment, 
219-20; courage in resisting popu- 
lace, 200; on the Crown, 217; 
death or, 221-3, 273; iv, 81; ae- 
termined disposition, xii, 207-8; 
fiery eloquence of, ix, 365-6; not 
an extempore speaker, xii, 203; 
faults, 208; flight from battle, 
213; pronounces funeral oration, 
214; suit against guardians, 201; 
Harpalus and, 218; forms new 
league, 216; Midias and, 207; 
Mill on, xxv, 19; nicknames, xii, 
199-200; old woman and, ix, 363; 
orations, xii, 208-10; Philip of 
Macedon and, 207, 210-13, 215; 
Pliny on, ix, 195, 214; Plutarch s 
Life of, xii, 197-224; first entry 
on public business, 201-2, 206; 
on public speaking, ix, 262-3; 
recalled to Athens, xii, 320-1; 
Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 137; 
urged to new studies, xii, 202; 
style, 206; teachers, 200-1; meth- 
ods of training himself, 205-6 

Dempster, George, Burns on, vi, 
167, 175, 185 

Denham, Sir John, Dryden on, 
xxxix, 171; on Henry VIII, xxiv, 
265 

Denham, Mr., and Franklin, 41, 42, 
49. 50-2 

Denial, not scepticism, xxxvii, 203-4 

Denman (see Denham) 

Dennis, John, on Addison's Cato, 
xxvii, 176-7, 178, 179, 197-208; on 
Shakespeare, xxxix, 22^9 243 



i 



GENERAL INDEX 



209 



Denny, Gov., Franklin on, i, 133, 

152, 156-7, 168, 170 
Dente, Vitaliano del, xx, ^^ note 6 
Denudation, Darwin on geological, 
\ xi, 336-7, 339» 345; xxix, ^35-6; 
Geikie on, xxx, 355-6; Lyell on, 
xxxviii, 421-2, 436 
Departure, by Patmore. xlii, 11 58 
Dependencies, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 
8-12, 18-19; arms in, T2\ factions 
in, 72-z . 

Dependent Origination, xlv, 639, 

680-1 
Deposition, Rousseau on right of, 

xxxiv, 225, 231 
Depravity, Dante on human, xx, 
211-13; Emerson on doctrine of, 
V, 278 
Depth, grander than other dimen- 
sions, xxiv, 63-4 
De Quincey,^ Thomas, life and 
worKS, xxvii, 334; Levana and 
Ladies of Sorrow, 335-41 
Dercennus, in ^neid, xiii, 391 
Dercetaeus, and Antony, xii, 397 
Descartes, Rene, on comets, xxxiv, 
120; geometr>^, work in, 114, 127; 
on God, xxxvii, 365 note; life and 
works of, xxxiv, 3; on light, 124; 
Locke on system of, xxxvii, 177; 
On the Method, xxxiv, 5-62; 
reasons for and against publish- 
ing Method, 49-62^ remarks on 
Method, 5-6; provisory code of 
morals, 21-5; compared with New- 
ton, 110-15; Pascal on, xlviii, 33- 
4, 414-15; beginning of new phi- 
losophy, xxxiv, 28-34; physical 
investigations, 35-48, 51-3; idea 
of planetary motions, 116; on 
rainbow, 124; Rousseau on, 255- 
6; scepticism of, xxxvii, 431-2; 
on the soul, xxxiv, 105; on tele- 
scopes, 126; travels, lo-ii, 25-7; 
Voltaire on, 110-15 
Descent, in classification, xi, 460-2 
Description, Burke on verbal, xxiv, 
^Z'T'i Wordsworth on powers of, 
xxxix, 312 
Desdemona, Lamb on, xxvii, 326-7 
Deserted Village, The, xli, 521-32; 

an idyllic poem, xxxix, 314 
Deserters, article of, in Spanish 

Treaty, xliii, 293-4 
Deserters, the Egyptian, xxxiii, 18- 

19 

Deserts, Burton on, ^ xxviii, 424; 
Shakespeare on, xlvi, 131 

Desideria, xli, 690 

Desire, defined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 
350; love contrasted with, 351; 
xxiv, yy; Milton on, iv, 170; of- 
fences through, ii, 202 (10) 

Desires, Augustine, St., on worldly, 
yii, 191-203; Bacon on, and fears, 
iii, 50; Buddha on noble and ig- 
noble, xlv, 731; Dante on, xx. 



217-20; Descartes on limitation of, 
xxxiv, 23-4; Emerson on unbri- 
dled, V, 96; Epictetus on, ii, 169 
(145); Hindu reward of righteous, 
xlv, 829-30; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
35o-4» 366-7, 384, 385-6; Kempis 
on, vii, 219, 282-3, 287, 302-3, 
327 (6); language of, xxxiv, 358; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 116, 117; Locke 
on, of children, 91-6; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 2i!2 (16); Mill 
on, XXV, 264-5 

Despair, defined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 
353; Epictetus on, ii, 173 (156); 
in music, Collins on, xli, 489 
Despair, the giant, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 118-23, 291-3 

Despoblado, valley of, xxix, 375-6 

Despondency: An Ode, vi, 206-8 

Despondency, Mr., in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 291-2, 294, 306, 316, 
318-19 

Despotism, legitimate with barbari- 
ans, xxv, 213; origin of, xxxiv, 
220-4; Rousseau on, 230-1; se- 
crecy surrounding, xxiv, 52 

De Stael, Madame, and the Em- 
peror, xxvii, 248; on herself, v, 
450 

Destinies, in Manfred, xviii, 423-8 

Destruction of Da Derga's Hostel, 
xlix, 209-64 

Destruction, Way of, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 46, 221-2 

Determination, why honorable, xxxiv, 
380; Pliny on, ix, 262 

Determinism (see Free Will) 

Detraction, Jesus on, xliv, 374 (22); 
Kempis on, vii, 303-4, 322 (5), 
323-4; Penn on, i, 362-3, 398-9 
(85-89); Socrates on, ii, 15; su- 
periority to, ii, 119 (7) 

Detraction, On the. Which Fol- 
lowed Certain Treatises, iv, 81, 
82 

Detritus (see Denudation) 

Detroit, River, navigation of, xliii, 
306 

Deucalion, son of Minos, xxii, 272 

Deuks, Dang o'er My Daddie, vi, 
466 

Deus, Ego Amo Te, xlv, 568-9 

De Vere, Sir Aubrey, (^lengariff, 
xli, 936-7 

De Vere, Edward, A Renunciation, 
xl, 296 

De Vere, house of, its motto, v, 
388-9 

Devereux, Col., at Gettysburg, xliii, 
409, 411 

Devereux, Penelope, and Sidney, 
xxvii, 5-6 

Devereux, Robert, A Passion, xl, 
294 

Devil, Bacon on, enviousness of the, 



210 



GENERAL INDEX 



ill, 2^% Bunyan on, xv, 197-8; 
Dante on, xx, 166 note 12; Goethe 
on, xix, 19; Kempis on, vii, 276 
(7); More on, xxxvi, 105; Penn 
on, i, 362 (267) 
Devon, Banks of the, vi, 303 
Devonshire, Duke of, Emerson on, 

V, 429 
Devoted Wife^ The, xlv, 708-11 
Devotion, false, Kempis on, vii, 27Z 
(5); Moliere on false, xxvi, 203, 
204 
Dexter, Afranius, case of, ix, ZZI' 

40 
Dexter, H. M., translator of hymn, 

xlv, 553 
Dexterity, favored by division of 

labor, X, 13 
Dextro-Tartrate of Lime, fermenta- 
tion of, xxxviii, 332-40 
Dhananjaya, xlv, 770, 771-2, 776-81 
Dhritirashtra, xlv, 801 
Diadematus, surname of Metellus, 

xii, 162 
Dialects, Johnson on, xxxix, 193 
Dialogue, Franklin on, i, 21 
Dialogue Song: Philly and Willy, 

vi, 541 
Dialogues of Hylas and Philo- 
Nous, xxxvii, 199-302; remarks 
on, 198 
Dialogues of Plato, ii, 3-114 
Diamonds, same as charcoal, xxx, 
28; pounded, as means of death, 
xxxi, 257 
Diana, Camilla^ and, xiii, 380-2; 
chastity of, iv, 58; goddess of 
childbirth, xl, 248; Latmian Shep- 
herd and, 248; worship of, at 
Ephesus, xliv, 474-5 (see also Ar- 
temis) 
Diana, Hymn to, xl, 306-7 
Diana of Foix, Montaigne to, xxxii, 

29 
Dianeme, To, xl, 345 
Diaphenia, xl, 2ZZ 
Diaries, in travel, iii, 49 
Diastole (see Systole and Diastole) 
Diaz, Ruy (see Cid) 
Dibdin, Charles, Tom Bowling, xli, 

.514 
Dicearcus, Montaigne on, xxxii, 20 
Dicers, More on, xxxvi, 212 
Dichogamous Plants, xi, 112 
Dickens, Charles, Emerson on, v, 
457. 491; The Ivy Green, xlii, 
1194 
Dickie of Dryhope, xl, 112-13 
Dickson, J. F., paper by, xlv, 756 
Dicomes, king of the Getae, xii, 385 
Dictes, Caxton on, xxxix, 9 
Dictes and Sayings of the Phi- 
losophers, xxxix, 10-13, 5 note 
Dictionary, Preface to Johnson's, 
xxxix, 191-216 



Didactic Art, Schiller on, xxxii, 287 

Didactic Poetry, Poe on, xxviii, 

387-8; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 

314 

Diderot, Carlyle on, xxv, 369; 

Hobbes and, xxxiv, 318 
Didias, Julianus (see Julianus) 
Dido, ^neas and, xiii, 85-179; 
Calypso and, xxxix, 165; Carthage 
founded by, xiii, 87-8; Chaucer's 
picture of, v, 287; death of, xiii, 
179-81; Dry den on, 30-9; harsh- 
ness of her reign, xxxvi, 57; in 
Hell, xx,^ 23; in the Mournful 
Fields, xiii, 226-7 
DIdymus, Newman on, xxvlii, 38 ^^^ 
Diego, the negro, with Drake, xxxiii, 

143-4, 147-8, i53» 157 

Dies Ir^, Dies Illa, xlv, 563-5 

Diet, Bacon on changes of, iii, 85; 
of children, Locke on, xxxvii, 16- 
22 

Difficulty, Burke on, xxiv,^ 315 » 
Channing on value of, xxyiii, 325; 
source of the sublime, xxiv, 68 

Difficulty, hill of, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 45, 220-1 

Diffidence, Browning on, xviii, 362; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 353, 380; Pliny 
on, ix, 288; quarrels caused by, 
xxxiv, 403, 404 

Diffidence, wife of Despair, in Pil- 
grim's Progress, xv, 119, 122, 
291 

Digby, Sir Kenelm, v, 368; Pope 
on, xl, 444 

Diggory, in She Stoops to Conquer, 
xviii, 214-15, 251-2 

Dignity, Confucius on, xliv, 55(32); 
Emerson on, v, 217; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 378; Kant on, xxxii, 365; 
morality alone possesses, 366 

Digressions, Raleigh on, xxxix, u8 

Dilettantes, Emerson on, v, 167 

Diligence, Carlyle on, xxv, 377-8; 
Penn on, i, 360 (234) 

Dimorphism, Darwin on, xi, 61; re- 
ciprocal, 319-22 

Dinas Bren, eagles of, xxxv, 356 ^ ^ 

Dinmont, Dandie, Ruskin on, xxviii, 

144 

Dinomache, mother of Alcibiades, 
xii, no 

Diodes, son of Orsilochus, xxii, 47, 
21^ 

Diocletian, Bacon on, iii, 51; mira- 
cles under, xlviii, 293 (832) 

Dioclides, accuser of Alcibiades, xii, 
128-9 

Diodon Antennatus, habits of, xxix, 

23-4 
Diodorus, on Themlstocles, xii, 35 

Diogenes of Apollonia, on the soul, 

xxxiv, 104 
Diogenes, the Cynic, Browne on, iii, 

320; on comedies, ii, 290 (6); 



GENERAL INDEX 



211 



Dandini on, v, 279; Emerson on, 
211; Epictetiis on, ii, 163 (128); 
freedom of, 168 (141); on friends, 
xxxii, 83; health of, ii, 161(118); 
Hegesias and, xxxii, 60; on indif- 
ference^ of circumstances, ii, 180 
(187); in Limbo, xx, 20; lines on, 
XXV, 455; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 
257 (3); mission of, 157 (108); 
Philip and, 159 (113); on phi- 
losophy, xxxii, 60; on recommen- 
dations, ii, 136 (57); Rome, Am- 
bassador to, X, 143; in Rome, iii, 
204-5; ix, 54; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
232; and the statues, ii, 177 note; 
on strength of soul,^ 138 (62); 
tub of, referred to, vi, 198; Vol- 
taire on, xxxiv, 104; will of, iii, 
306 note 
Diognetus, Aurelius's debt to, ii, 

193 (6)... 
Diogoras, lii, 45 
Diomede, in Hell, xx, no; Minerva 

and, xiii, 108-9; reference to, 92; 

return of, from Troy, xxii, 38, 

39 

Diomedes, Dryden on, xiii, 26; in 
Italy, 272-3; refuses aid to 
Latinus, 369-71 

Diomedes, friend of Alcibiades, xii, 
119 

Dion, Cocceianus, ix, 420-2 

Dion, in Philaster, xlvii, in pres- 
ence chamber scene, 639-49; be- 
fore Pharamond's house, 663-9; 
scene with Philaster, 669-73 ; at 
the hunt, 684-5, 687-9, 690, 694, 
697-700; on Philaster, 702; on 
Arethusa, 704; in the sedition, 
705, 706-7; in final scene, 712, 
714-16 

Dion Prusceus, and the Rhodians, 
iii, 201 

Dion, of Syracuse, and Plato, xii, 
80 

Dione, mother of Venus, xx^ 316 
note I, 383 note 13 

Dionysius, the Elder, in Hell, xx, 
53; and tragedy, iv, 416 

Dionysius, the Younger, Plato and, 
iii, 204, 216; xxvii, 41; xxxvi, 
167; as a poet, xviii, 15-16 

Dionysius, St., of Alexandria, xx, 
330 note 22; on God, xxxix, 108- 
9; quoted, xxxv, 347; vision of, 
iii, 210 

Dionysius, the Areopagite, xx, 407 
notes 3 and 5; xliv, 470 (34) 

Dionysius, king of Portugal, xx, 
370 note iq 

Dionysius, school of, ix, 165 

Dionysius, surnamed Thrax, Cicero 
on, ix, 152 

Dionysus, in the Bacch^, viii, 349- 
415; Dryas's son and, 272-3; Eu- 
ripides on, 358, 360, 371-2; fes- 
tivals of, 418; in the Frogs, 419- 



66; Hades, ruler of, xxxili, 63; 

Osiris and, identified by Herodo- 
tus, 25, 29-30, 74-5, 81 (see also 

Bacchus) 
Diophantus, at Athens, xxviii, 60 
Diopithes, decree of, xii, 70 
Diores, death of, xiii^ 412; in the 

foot-race, 192-3 
Dioscorides, Dante on, xx, 20 
Dioscuroi, unknown in Egypt, xxxiii, 

26 (see Castor and Pollux) 
Diotimus, ii, 260 (25), 262 (37) 
Dipamkara, xlv, 596-8; Buddha and, 

599-601, 613-14 
Diphilides, and Themistocles, xii, p 
Diphilus, Cicero on, ix, 115; xxvii, 

405 note 8 
Diras, the, xiii, 425 
Dirce, daughter of Achelous, viii, 

371 
Dirce, river, Eacchus bathed in, viii, 

371 
Dirce, by ILandor, xH, 924 
Direct Taxes, apportionment of, 

xliii, 193 (3), 198 (4), 204 (5); 

under the Confederation, 172 
Dirge, by Sidney, xl, 214-15 
Dirge, Fidele's, xl, 275 
Dirge of Love, Shakespeare's, xl, 

274-5 
Dirge, ^ A Sea, xl, 275 
Dis, in Scandinavian mythology, 

xlix, 311 note; Proserpine and, 

iv, 164 
Dis, Pluto called, xlvi, 426 
Dis, city of, xx, 35 et seq. 
Disappointment, defined by Burke, 

xxiv, 34; Penn on, i, 342 (32), 

403 (152) 
Disasters, bring out leaders, xix, 385 
Disciples, chorus of, in Faust, xix, 

35; Pascal on, xlviii, 172 (519); 

Woolman on, i, 209 
Discipline, Kempis on, vH, 246 (7); 

Penn on, i, 344; Plutarch on lack 

of, xii, 152; self, Epictetus on, ii, 

154 (100) 
Discontent, cause of, xxviii, 470; 

Emerson on, v, 81; Penn on, i, 

342 (38-40) 
Discontent, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 76 

Discontentment, Epictetus on, ii, 
123 (20), 127 (31, 32), 128 (35); 
Epictetus on, 133 (49); Epictetus 
on, 167 (140); Marcus Aurelius 
on, 213 (3), 227 (8), 235 (11), 
259 (17), 262 (34); 284 (25), 
28s (28), 296 (20), 303 (26); 
public, iii, 27, 38, 40, 42-3 

Discord, Burke on Homer's figure 
of, xxiv, 57; in chaos, iv, 135; 
daughter of sin, 312; Pope on, 
xl, 425; proclaims itself, xxv, 333 

Discouragement, easy, Emerson on, 
V, 80 



212 



GENERAL INDEX 



Discourse, absurdities of, xxxiv, 
372-3; discretion and fancy in, 
365; excessive length or brevity 
of, xlviii, 29; Hobbes on ends 
of, xxxiv, 359-62; Kempis on 
proper, vii, 220; Pascal on natu- 
ral, xlviii, 12 (14) (see also Con- 
versation, Inquiry, Reasoning) 

Discourse, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

87-9 

Discretion, better than daring pride, 
xlix, 162; defined by Hobbes, 
xxxiv, 363; in discourse, 365 

Discretion, damsel in Pii^grim's 
Progress^ xv, 51 

Discriminating Duties, x, 370-88 

Discussion, liberty of, James Mill 
on, XXV, 71, 218-19, 260 

Disease, Browne on, iii, 309; car- 
ried by Europeans, xxix, 459-60; 
cause of, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
175-6; caused by animals, xxxviii, 
153; contagious, Jenner on, 172-3; 
death's messenger, xlv, 702; 
Emerson on, v, 127; germ theory 
of, xxxviii, 382-402 ; Herodotus on 
cause of, xxxiii, 40; inheritance 
of, Pliny on, ix, 206; sign of 
sanitary neglect, xxviii, 470; 
source of error, xlviii, 38 

diseases, Adam's vision of, iv, 334- 
5; cure of desperate, xlvi, 162; 
effects of, different, xxix, 458 
note; incurable, in Utopia, xxxvi, 
220-1 

Disgrace, fear of, in children, xxxvii, 
41-4; Locke on fear of, 103 

Dishonesty, for gain, i, 406 (184) 

Disinterestedness, Hume on, xxxvii, 

375 
Dislike (see Aversion) 
Disobedience, Locke on, xxxvii, 

64-6 
Disorder, and grandeur, xxiv, 68-9 
Disorder, A Sweet, xl, 345-6 
Dispatch, Bacon on, iii, 66-7; in 

public business, i, 371-2 
Dispensations, Luther on, xxxvi, 

325» 331-2 
Dispersal, means of, of plants and 

animals, xi, 403-11; during glacial 

period, 411-17, 422-6; of fresh- 
water species, 427-31 
Dispondency, Mr., in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 291-2, 294, 306; 

parts with Christiana, 316; death, 

318-9 
Disposition, Locke on, xxxvii, 60-1 ; 

not inherited, xx, 319-21 
Dispositions, of children, xxxvii, 47, 

89-90, 96 
Disputes, passion in, iii, 328-9 
Disputing, Franklin on habit of, i, 

15-16, 132; Locke on habit of, 

xxxvii, 133, i35» 170-1; Mon- 



taigne on, xxxii, 42-3, 44; Penn 
on, i, 352 (133-6), 356 (184) 
Disrespect, Locke on, xxxvii, 128 
Dissatisfaction, Pascal on human, 

xlviii, 47 (109) 
Dissections. Harvey on, xxxviii, 112, 

^.147 

Dissent, dishonoring, a way of, 
xxxiv, 379; Locke on, xxxvii, 134 

Dissenters, Mill on duty of, xxv, 
34; Milton on value of, iii, 235-6, 
241-2; Price on duty of, xxiv, 160 
note 3 (see Non-conformity) 

Dissenters, Shortest Way with, 
Defoe's, xxvii, 143-57 

Dissertation on Liberty and Neces' 
sity, i, 43-4, 57-8 

Dissimulation, Bacon on, iii, 17-20 
(see also Hypocrisy) ; in Hell, 
XX, 47; Pascal on, xlviii, 43; Penn 
on, i, 392 (15-16), 394 (37-46); 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 71-2; Steven- 
son on, xxviii, 291 

Distance, Berkeley on idea of, 
xxxvii, 234-6 

Distant Friend, To a, xli, 689-90 

Distinction, Carlyle on love of, xxv, 
409-11; human thirst for, xxviii, 
96-7; Rousseau on love of, xxxiv, 
229 

Distinctions, Locke on, xxxvii, 181- 
2; nice, Bacon on, iii, 68 

Distress, goods taken in, xliii, 76 

(35) 

Distresses, of others, pleasure in, 
xxiv, 41-4 

Distribution, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 426; 
importance of just, xxviii, 363; 
in agricultural systems, x, 457-8; 
in Utopia, xxxvi, 195-6, 200-1; 
Mill on laws of, xxv, 158; prog- 
ress of wealth dependent on, x, 
57; of produce (see Wages, Rent, 
Profits) 

Distributive Justice, Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 422-3, 426; Hume on, 
xxxvii, 424 

District of Columbia, slave-trade in, 
xliii, 327 note; under Congress, 
197 (17) 

Distrust, Emerson on, v, 289; ex- 
pensiveness of, 58-9; opponent of 
reform, xxvii, 251-2; Webster on, 
xlvii, 729 

Disturbances, charges of creating, 
xxxix, 46-9 

Disuse, of parts, effects of, xi, 147- 
52 

Ditty, by Sidney, xl, 215-16 

Ditty in Praise of Eliza, xl, 250-2 

Divergence of Character, xi, 122-6; 
how it leads to formation of spe- 
cies, etc., 126-9; limits to, 139-41 

Diversification, of structure and 
habits, xi, 123-6; limits to, 139-41 



GENERAL INDEX 



213 



Diversion, Pascal on, xlviii, 52-8, 63 
(167-8), 64 (170-1), 113 (324) 

Diversity, Mill on need of, xxv, 
277-8 

Dives, and Lazarus, xv, 36; xliv, 

404 (19-3 1 ) 

Divination, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
no; in Egypt, xxxiii, 42; among 
the Germans, loo-i; pagan meth- 
ods of, xxxiv, 396-7; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 287-8; Prometheus first 
teacher of, viii, 173 and note 35; 
Vindicianus on, vii, 50, 108 

Divine Comedy, Dante's, xx; Ar- 
nold on selections from, xxviii, 
73; Carlyle on, xxv, 461; Cellini 
on line of, xxxi, 316; its relation 
to Celtic myths, xxxii, 188; Dante 
on, XX, 361-2, 392; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 367, 372; Macaulay on the, 
xxvii, 389; remarks on, xx, 4; 
Shelley on, xxvii, 364, 366 

Divine Image, The, xli, 605-6 

Divine Laws, Emerson on, v, 
26-8 

Divine Men, Emerson on, v, 201 

Divine Mercy, in Divine Comedy, 
XX, II note 5 

Divine Nature, attributed to only 
one or two, v, 29 

Divine Right, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
225 

Divine Service at Lamington, vi, 

4$3 . ^ 

Divine Spirit (see Over-soul) 
Divine Things, judged by human, 

iii, 48; iv, 198 
Divine Truths, Pascal on, xlviii, 

406-7 
Diviners, punishment of, in IIcll, 

XX, 83-6 
Divinity, Emerson on, in man, v, 

74-7; study of, Faustus on, xix, 

201-2, 203 
Divinity Students, Address to, v, 

^5-43 

Divisibility, infinite, Hume on, 
xxxvii, 437-8 note; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 437-44 

Division of Labor, advantages of, x, 
9-18, 22'3', dependent on amount 
of capital, 222; Kant on, xxxii, 
318; limits to, X, 24-8; mischie" 
of, v, 415; in nature, xi, 107; 
origin of, x, 19-22 

Divisions, fable on, xvii, 32 

Divorce, among Arabs, xlv, 999 
note; Bagehot on, xxviii,^ 190; 
Jesus on marriage after, xliv, 404 
(18); Mill on, xxv, 312-13; Mil- 
ton on, xxviii, 189-92; O^ul, St., 
on, xlv, 509 (lo-ii); la, Utopia, 

XXXvi, 222-3 

Do You Remember Me, xli, 929 
Dobell, Sydney, Ballad by, xlii, 
1160 



Dobrizhoffen, on Iiail-stones, xxix, 

128; on ostriches, 105-6 
Dobson, story of, xlv, 705-7 
Docility, Pascal on, xlviii, 94 (254) 
Doctor, Chaucer's, xl, 22-3 
Doctors (see Physicians) 
Doctrinaires, Low H on, xxviii, 449 
Doctrines, Confucius on strange, 
xliv, 8 (16); traditional, absence 
of vitality in, xxv, 246 
Dodger, in Shoemaker's Holiday, 

xlvii, 453, 469-7 1 » 474. 504 
Dodington, George Bubb, Shorten 

Sail, xl, 475 
Dodona, Oracle of, ^Eschylus on, 
viii, 185; Herodotus on, xxxiii, 
31; origin of, 32-3 
Doe, One-eyed, fabie of, xvii, 38 
Doeg, the Edomite, xliv, 2 10- 11 
Does Haughty Gaul Invasion 

Threat, vi, 567-8 
Dog in the Manger, fable of, xvii, 

27 
Dog and Shadow, fable of, xvii, 10 
Dog and Wolf, fable of, xvii, 21 
Dog Watches, explained, xxiii, 18 
Dogmas, Dunkers' attitude towards, 
i, 1 15-16; Emerson on, v, 36; 
(Joethe on, xix, 126-7 
Dogmatism, Franklin on, in speech, 
i, 19; Hume on, xxxvii, 441; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 131 (395). 146; 
Rousseau on, xxxiv, 298-301 
Dogmatist, in Faust, xix, 181 
Dogs, associative instinct in, xxix, 
164; Burke on our contempt for, 
xxiv, 59; Darwin on instincts of, 
xi, 267, 268; held sacred in Egypt, 
xxxiii, 36-7; Harrison on, xxxv, 
369-75; Hunter on descent of, 
xxxviii, 153 note; man, love of, 
in, iii, 46; xi, 269; origin of, 34, 

35. 36-7. 49 . ^ 

Dol Common, in The Alchemist, 
Dapper and, xlvii, 576, 583, 624- 
5; Face and, 521, 524-8, S39-40» 
627-9; Mammon and, 554, 559, 
584, 586, 587-91, 602-9; Spanish 
don and, 574, 575, 576; Subtle 
and, 521, 524-8, 539-40, 626-7 

Dolabella, Cornelius, accusation of, 
xii, 276; Antony and, 340, 342; 
Caesar and, 341; Cicero and, ix, 
164; Cleopatra and, xii, 400; ex- 
travagance of, 317 

Dolabella, in All for Love, Antony 
and, xviii, 23, 52-3, 56, 57-61, 65, 

66, 79-83; Cleopatra and, 53, 54-5, 

67, 72 

Dolben, Gilbert, and Dryden, xiii, 

431 
Dolcino, the friar, xx, 118 note 5 
DoHus, in the C)dyssey, xxii, 67, 

337.. 341. 344 
Dolphin, Dana on the, xxiii, 22; 
of Hippo, Pliny's story of, ix» 
368-70 



214 



GENERAL INDEX 



Domat, Burke on, xxiv, 300 note 

Domestic Animals, adaptability of, 
to climate, xi, 153; Dreeding of, 
46-7; descent of, 34-45; diseases 
from, xxxviii, 153-4; fertility of, 
xi, 304-5, 323-4; mental qualities 
of, z^T'To 

Domestic Industries, capital natural- 
ly seeks, x, 349-51; protection of 
(see Protective Duties) 

Domestic Races, improvement not 
limited, xi, 55-6; adapted to use 
of man, 52; origin of, 34-5, 44, 
45-6, 53-4, 56-7 

Domestic Trade, capital used in, x, 
310-11; limit of, 316-17 

Domestication, improves fertility, xi, 
305; eliminates sterility of spe- 
cies, 42; variation under, 25-57 

Dominant, technical definition of, 
xi, 70 

Dominic, St., Dante on, xx, 332 
note 8, 337-8; Luther on, xxxvi, 

Dominica, Drake at, xxxiii, 235, 

^47-8 

Dominicans, Dante on the,^ xx, 335 
note 30; Milton on the, iv, 150 

Dominis, Antonio de, on the rain- 
bow, xxxiv, 124 

Domitian, as an archer, iii, 51 ; 
dream of, 96; Helvidius and, ix, 
354 note; philosophers and, ii, 
116; ix, 250 note; Pliny on, 265- 
7, 274 note, 329, 335, 336-7; spi- 
ders, toys of, XXXV, 366-7; Tibe- 
rius and, xxxvi, 3; the turbot of, 
xxxix, 374 .. o 

Domitius, and Antony, xn, 384; 
Cicero on, ix, 120; xii, 258; in 
Civil War, 304, 311, 312; Phar- 
naces and, 316-17 

Donalbain, in Macbeth, xlvi, 306, 
317. 324. 329, 330-1, 332, 365 

Donald the Black, Gathering 
Song of, xli, 762-3 

Donatello, his "Judith," xxxi, 357 
note 3; Cellini on, 358, 373, 374-5 

Donati, Corso, enemy of Dante, xx, 
241 note 3; death of, 246 and 
note 6; head of Neri faction, 2-j 
note 5; Piccarda and, 298 note 6 

Donati, Simon, and Schicchi, xx, 
126 note 

Donatists, Calvin on the, xxxix, 37; 
Pascal on the, xlviii, 289 ^ (822) 

Don Galaor, Cervantes on, xiv, 21, 
103-4 

Don John of Austria, xiv, 404, 405, 
406; Raleigh on, xxxix, 92 

Donkey (see Ass) 

Donkey, Man, and Boy, fable of, 
xvii, 36-7 

Donn Desa, xHx, 214; sons of, 214, 
217, 223, 225, 229, 247 

Donne, John, advowsons presented 
to, XV, 348; appearance and char- 



acter, 374; 
334-6 ; 
Boo 

of, ._. 
conduct of 



benefice declined by, 

6; birth and education, 327-9: 

k of Devotions by, 355; burial 

373; charity in life of, 363-4; 

Deanery, 364-6; Dean 

5, 351-2; death of, 371- 

2; domestic sorrows, 337-9; Elles 



of St. Paul's, 351-2; death of^ 

lestic sorrows, 3; 
mere, Lord, and, 330, 331; em 



bassy to Bohemia, 351; in France, 
339-40; , ^friends of, 358; Hazlitt 
on, xxvii, 283-4; Herbert and, xv, 
359-60, 388; Mrs. Herbert and, 
380-83; Hymn to God, 360; James 
the First and, 343-4» 347» 353; 
King, Dr., and, 354-5; last sick- 
ness of, 355-6, 366-9; lecturer of 
Lincoln's Inn, 350; Lines to 
George Herbert, 359; Lines on 
His Mistress, xxvii, 284; lines 
from Epithalamion of, 283-4; mar- 
riage of, XV, 330-2, 356; monu- 
ment of, 370, 373-4; More, Sir 
George, and, 332-3; mother of, 
364; ordination of, 346; Poems 
oy, 342, 359. 360; xxvii, 284; xl, 
310-21; as a poet, xv, 356-7; 
preaching of, 347-8; Prolocutor 
of the Convocation, 352; Pseudo- 
Martyr of, 344; studies and writ- 
tings, 361-2; travels of, 329-30; 
Valediction by, 342; vision of, 
340-2; Walton and, 326; Walton's 
Life of, 327-74; wife's death, 348- 
9; will or, 362-3; Wolly, Francis^ 
and, 333 
Don Quixote, Amadis of Gaul imi- 
tated by, xiv, 238-40; on arms and 
learning, 393-9; balsam prepared 
by, 138; Biscaine squire ana, 71- 
2, 75-8; calling and manner of 
life of, 19; at Chrysostom's fu- 
neral, 116-17; countryman and his 
boy and, 39-42; disciplinants and, 
533-5; Dorothea and, 285-93, 296- 
300, 387-9, 483; dream of tri- 
umph of, 180-3; Dulcinea and, 
104, 105, 224-31, 234; encaged, 
488-96, 507-12; epitaphs on, 540, 
542; Eugenio the goatherd and, 
531-2; first sally, 25; friars and, 
69-70; galley slaves and, 187-97; 
goatherds and, 85-98; hearse, ad- 
venture of, 155-9; Holy Brother- 
hood and, 479-81 ; home returning 
of, 536-9; at the inn, 27-31, 127-9, 
i35-7» 139-41. 451; innkeeper and, 
468-9; knighting of, 32-8; on 
knight errantry, 100-4; knightly 
tales read by, 20-1; "Knight of 
the Ill-favored Face," 159-60; li- 
brary burnt, 51-8; Mambrino's hel- 
met and, 175-7, 472-4; Maritornes 
and, 130-2, 457-63; merchants of 
Toledo and, 43-5 ; on romances, 
514-21; Sancho Panza and, 62-4, 
79-84, 300-3, etc. ; sheep and, 146-50; 
sickness of, 59; sonnets in praise 



GENERAL INDEX 



215 



of, 15-17; windmills, adventure of, 
with, 65-6; wine-bags and, 364-8; 
Yanguesian carriers and, 1 19-26 
Don Quixote of the Mancha, Cer- 
vantes's, xiv; Lowell on, xxviii, 
4S0-I 
DooN, The Banks o*, vi, 422-4 
Doria, Branca, xx, 142 note 6 
Dorian Music, described, iv, 104 
Dorigen, and Sophocles, v, 125-6 
Dorine, in Tartuffe, Cleante and, 
xxvi, 196-7; 253; Damis and, 198, 
233-4; Elmire and, 256-7; Loyal 
and, 2^^* 276, 277; Mariane and, 
217-22; 228-32; Orgon and, 199- 
200; 208-17, 269, 272, 278; Mme. 
Pernelle and, 190, 192-3, 194-5; 
Tartuffe and, 234-6, 281 
Doris, eggs of the, xxix, 215 note 
Dorothea, in Don Quixote, xiv, 

266-93, 296-300, 374-84, 387-9 
Dorothea, in Hermann and Doro- 
thea, with the fugitives, xix, 
346-8; described by Hermann, 
383; in the French invasion, 391- 
2; found by the doctor, 392-4; 
the magristrate on, 395; with Her- 
mann at the fountain, 402-6; re- 
turns to bid farewell to com- 
panions, 407-11; goes home with 
Hermann, 412-16; presented to his 
parents, 420-1; reproved in play 
by the pastor, 422-3; resolves to 
return to companions, 423-5; Her- 
mann tells her his love, 426-7; 
begs father's forgiveness, 427-8; 
betrothed to Hermann, 428; tells 
of her first lover, 429-30 
Dorset, Earl of, Raleigh on, xxxix, 

78; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 150 
Doson, name of, xii, 162 note 
Dotage, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 179-80 
Doubleday, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

351, 373, 388, 408 
Doubt, Blake on, xli, 603; Carlyle 
on, XXV, 362; Dante on, xx, 303; 
Descartes on state of, xxxiv, 15, 
21-4, 28, 32-3; Hobbes's definition 
of, 360; Krishna on, xiv, 821-2 
(see also Scepticism) 
Doubting Castle, xv, 118, 291-3 
Doughty, Master, with Drake, xxxiii, 

209, 21 1, 212, 213, 214 
Douglas, Burns on family of, vi, 397; 

family and arms of, xxxv, 103 
Douglas, Sir Archambault, xxxv, 

9S-6, 103 
Douglas, Earl James, burial of, 
xxxv, T02; at Otterburn, 89, 91, 
92-3; Percy and, 85, 86; raid of, 
83-4 (see also ballads of Otter- 
burn and Chevy Chase) 
Douglas, John, the author, Gold- 
smith on, xli, 518, 519-20; with 
Raleigh, xxxiii, 345-6, 347, 348 



Douglas, Katherine (see Barlass) 
Douglas, Lord, at Poitiers, xxxv, 

48 
Douglas, Lady Margaret (see Doug- 
las Tragedy) 
Douglas, Stephen A., Lowell on, 

xxviii, 452-3 
Douglas Tragedy, The, xl, 51-4 
Dove, John, Epitaph on, vi, 126 
Dove-house, Blake on a, xli, 601 
Dover Beach, xlii, 11 83-4 
Dover Cliffs, by Bowles, xli, 697-8 
Down the Burn, Davie, vi, 504 
Dowy Houms o Yarrow, xl, 116-18 
Draghinazzo, the demon, xx, 90, 93 
Drake, Sir Francis, Revived, xxxiii, 

125-203 
Drake's Famous Voyage Round 

the World, xxxiii, 207-33 
Drake's Great Armada, xxxiii, 237- 

68 
Drake, Sir Francis, armadas of, 
xxxiii, 234-5; on Barbary Coasts, 
208; at Cape PJlanco, 208-9; Ca- 
cafuego pursuit, 219-20; in Cana- 
ries, 241; at Canno, 221; at Cape 
Verde Islands, 209-10, 242-7; Car- 
tagena, expeditions against, 148-50, 
160-6, 253-61; Chagres Fleet and, 
192; Chili, on coast of, 217-19; 
Cimaroons and, 157-60; in (Tuba, 
262; death of, 235; Dedicatory 
Epistle to Elizabeth, 130-1; at 
Dominica, 247-8; at Ferro and 
Cape Bianco, 242; fleet of, and 
commanders of, 237-8; at Fogo 
and Brava Islands, 211; French 
captain and, 192-4; Garret, John, 
and, 136; at Guatulco, 220-1; 
Harrison on, xxxv, 338; at Isle of 
Pinos, xxxiii, 138-9, 148; at Isle 
of Victuals, 146; at La Mocha, 
217; life of, chief events, 126, 
132; at Lima, 219; in Malay 
Islands, 227-33; in New Albion, 
222-6; at Nombre de Dios, 139-44; 
171-2; in Pacific Ocean, 177, 216, 
226; in Panama, 172-84; at Port 
Pheasant, 135-8; at Port St. Julian, 
213-15; Prizes and losses of, 267- 
8; Raleigh's colony and, 265-7; 
Resolution of Land-Captains, 257- 
9; Rio Grande expedition, 154-6; 
at St. Augustine, 262-5, 267; at 
St. Christopher's, 248; at St. Do- 
mingo, 248-53; 267-8; at St. 
Helena, 265; at Santiago, 210-11; 
at Santa Marta, 167; in Sound 
of Darien, 153-4; on coast of S. 
America, 211-13; on coast of 
Spain, 238-41; Spanish prize, 168- 
9; Spanish treasure train taken 
by, 194-6; stores of, 157, 166; in 
Strait of Magellan, 215-16; at 
Venta Cruz, 184-6; plan against 



216 



GENERAL INDEX 



Veragua, 188-92; wound of, 145; 
wrongs and purpose to avenge, 

133-4 

Drake, Sir Francis (nephew) xxxiii, 
127; Dedication to Chari^es I, 
129; Dedication to the Reader, 
132 

Drake, Dr., James, xxxix, 173 

Drake, John, brother of Sir Francis, 
xxxiii, 134, 141, 142, 144, 148, 
1 5 1-2, 157, 160; death of, 170 

Drake, Joseph, brother of Francis, 
xxxiii, 171 

Drake, Thomas, brother of Francis, 
xxxiii, 214, 238 

Drama, in Athens, xxvii, 355, 357; 
Burns on imported, vi, 396; Dry- 
den on, xiii, 7-11, 14; Goethe on, 
xxxix, 274; Hugo on, 370-94; 
Hugo on Greek, 358-9, 364-5; lan- 
guage in, correctness of, xxxix, 
393-4; length of, 402-4; love as 
basis of, 221; Macaulay on, xxvii, 
402; influence of, on morals, 356; 
narrations in, xxxix, 229; origi- 
nality in, 382-5; pleasure in, rea- 
son of, 233-4; popular and poet- 
ical ideas of, xix, p-15; reading 
of, xxxix, 234; reality in, 385-8; 
refinement in false, 389-90; Shel- 
ley on, xviii, 2^]^ 278; xxvii, 355- 
6; Sidney on place and time in, 
46-7; society, state of, and, 356-8; 
tragedy and comedy in, mingled, 
xxxix, 223-4; unities of, 231-5, 
376-82; verse in, 388, 390-3 

Dramas, Continental, xxvi 

Dramas, Elizabethan, xlvi, xlvii 

Dramas, Greek, viii 

Dramas, Modern English, xviii 

Dramatic Poetry, Wordsworth on, 
xxxix, 313 

Dramatists, Aristophanes on duty 
of, viii, 450, 452 

Drances, and ^neas, xiii, 365; de- 
nounces Turnus, 368, 373-4 

Drawbacks, Smith on, x, 346-7; 
called bounties, 406; on exports, 
389-91 

Drawing, Locke on knowledge of, 
xxxvii, 144-5 

Drayton, Michael, poems by, xl, 226- 
32 

Dream, A, by Burns, vi, 217-20 

Dream, A, of the Unknown, xli, 
865-6 

Dream, The, by Donne, xl, 313-14 

Dreams, Adam on, iv, 186; Augus- 
tine, St., on, vii, 190; Bunyan on, 
XV, 229-30; Calderon on, xxvi, 48- 
50, 52, (i2\ Chaucer on, xl, 37-8 
note 34, 39-43; Descartes on, 
xxxiv, 33-4; Elihu on, xliv, 125 
(15-17); Hobbes on, xxxiv, 327-9; 
Homer on, xxii, 282 ; Hume on, 
xxxvii, 322; Pascal on, xlviii, 129 



(386); Pliny on, ix, 212; Tenny- 
son on, xiii, 1038 

Dress, in ancient Egypt, xxxiii, 41- 
2; in Elizabethan England, xxxy, 
304-7; of the Germans, xxxiii, 
105; Herrick on disorder in, xl, 
345-6; Locke on, xxxvii, lo-ii, 
15-16, 31; Luther on luxury in, 
xxxvi, 348; Pascal on, xlviii, 36-7, 
III (315-16); Shakespeare on, 
xlvi, 102; in Utopia, xxxvi, 189, 
i93> 205 211 (see also Apparel) 

Dreux, battle of, xxxviii, 51 

Dreux, Earl of, xxxv, 15 

Drewry, Sir Robert, and Dr. Donne, 
XV, 339, 358 

Drinking, Burns on, vi, 106, 193; 
Brynhild on, xlix, 394; of chil- 
dren, xxxvii, 19-21, 32; Cotton 
on, xxxix, 324-5; Dryden on, xl, 
402; Johnson on, xxvii, 190; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 15, 188-9; More 
on, xxxvi, 215; Omar Khayyam 
on, xli, 971, 973, 976-7, 979-81, 



983-4, 986, 987; Penn on, i, 345 

(65-7: ~' ' 
326-7 



(65-7) ; Shakespeare on, x 



345 
:lvi, 



Drinking, by Cowley, xl, 375-6 
Drinking Song, by Jordan, xl, 373 ^ 
Drinking Song, by Sheridan, xli, 

567 
Drinking Song (16th century), xl, 

192-4 
Drinking Song, of Tony Lumpkin, 

xviii, 209-10 
Dris, fosterer of Conaire, xlix, 243-4 
Drought, Bacon on, iii, 143; Dar- 
win on effects of, xxix, 145-7 
Drugger, in The Alchemist, xlvii, 

535-9» 564-6, 577> 580-1, 610-11, 

6x2, 625-6, 627, 634 
Druids, Burke on, xxiv, 53; Milton 

on, iv, 75; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 90 
Drumlanrig, On Destruction of 

Woods of, vi, 435 
Drummond, William, poems by, xl, 

335-40 

Drunkenness, as a crime, xxv, 306; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 368-9; St. Paul 
on, xlv, 507 (11), 508 (10); Penn 
on, i, 346 {^2^ ; price of wine and, 
X, 381-2; Woolman on, i, 204-5 

Drusilla, wife of Felix, xliv, 486 

Drusus, in Germany, xxxiii, 117; 
marriage of, xii, 403; Pillars of 
Hercules and, xxxiii, 115 

Dryden, John, translation of ^neis 
and Dedication, xiii; All fo« 
Love, xviii, 5, loi; Arnold on, 
xxviii, 82-4;^ Charlemagne, Hymn 
OF, translation of, xlv, 559; on 
Chaucer, xxviii, 77-8, 81; as a 
critic, xxvii, 209; on his critics, 
xxxix, 180-3; Gray on, xl, 467; 
Hazlitt on, xxvii, 288, life and 



GENERAL INDEX 



217 



works, xxxix, i6o note; xviii, 3-4; 
Locke and, xxxvii, 3; Macaulay 
on, xxvii, 402; Mill on, xxv, 16; 
on Milton, xxviii, 210; Pepys and, 
316; Preface to Fables, xxxix, 
160-83; remarks on his work, xiii, 
429; 1, 55; on Shakespeare, xxxix, 
262, 334; Short Poems by, xl, 
394-406; Taine on, xxxix, 452; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 137; Words- 
worth on Indian Emperor of, 
xxxix, 340 and note 
Dryops, death of, xiii, 338 
Duad, of St. Augustine, vii, 60 
Dualism, in nature (see Polarity) 
Duan, meaning of, vi, 180 note 
Duban, the Sage, story of, xvi, 33- 

43 
Dubartas, The Creation of, xxxix, 

333 
Dubthach Chafer, xlix, 253, 261 
Duca, Guido del, in Purgatory, xx, 

201-3, 207 note 
Ducato, value of the, xxxi, 39 note i 
Duchess, My Last, xiii, 11 15 
Duchess of Malfi, xlvii, 721-816; 

remarks on, 720 
Ducki^ing, The Ugi,y, xvii, 237-46 
Ducks, descent of, xi, 36; non- 
flying, 147; shoveller, 237-8; 
steamer, xxix, 215; wild and do- 
mestic, compared, xi, 29 
Duclaux, M., Pasteur and, xxxviii, 

287 
DuDDON River, Vai^edictory Son- 
net TO, xli, 694-5 
Duelling, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 381-2; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 184; Swift on, 
xxvii, 107 
Duera, family of, xx, 136 note 9 
Dufferin, Lady, Lament by, xli, 

945-7 
Dugong, Darwin on the, xi, 378 
Du Guesclin, saying of, v, 317 
Duilius, Gaius, Cato on, ix, 62 
Duke, meaning of, xxxiv, 383 
Dulcinea del Toboso, mistress of 

Don Quixote, xiv, 24, 75; Don 

Quixote and, 104-5, 233-4; epi- 
taph on, 542; Oriana to, 17; 

Sancho Panza and, 231-2, 306-8; 

Solis Dan on, 16-17; Sonnet on, 

540 
Dull, in Pii^grim's Progress, xv, 220 
Dumas, M., on fermentation, xxxviii, 

368 
Dumont, Pierre Etienne, on Ben- 

tham's works, xxv, 46, 47; 

Trait e des Judicaires, xxv, 77 
Dumourier, General, Impromptu on 

Desertion of, vi, 491 
Dunbar, Col., Franklin on, i, 138, 

141, 143, 152 
Dunbar, William, lines to, vi, 268 

note 



Duncan, in Macbeth, in camp near 

Forres, xlvi, 306-8; horses of, 331; 

Lady Macbeth and, 316, 317-18, 

322; Macbeth and, 3i3-i5> 317-18, 

338; murder of, 320-31 
Duncan, Edmund, xv, 414-15, 419 
Duncan Davison, vi, 317-18 
Duncan Gray, vi, 476 
DuNDAS, Robert, On the Death 

of, vi, 307-8 
Dundee, Burns on, vi, 306 
Dundee, Bonie, by Burns, vi, 268-9 
Dundee, Bonny, by Scott, xli, 770-2 
Dunkers, beliefs of the, i, 11 5- 16 
Dunlop, John, poem by, xli, 595 
Dunning, Mr., Burke on, xxiv, 417 
Dunstan, St., Harrison on, xxxv, 

265 
Dunyzad, in Arabian Nights, xvi, 

II 
Duport, Dr., Dean of Peterborough, 

XV, 387 
Duppa, Dr., Walton on, xv, 358 
Duquesne, Fort, attack on, i, 140-1, 

143-4 

Duranti, Durante, xxxi, 188 note, 
256 

Duras, Robert of, xxxv, 46 

Durer, Albert, method of, iii, 112 

Duress, in Massachusetts, xliii, 77 
(40) 

Durham, Bishop of, at Otterburn, 
xxxv, 87-8, 96-7, 98-9, lOO-I 

Durham, John George Lambton, 
Lord, xxv, 139-40 

Durindana, sword of Roland, xlix, 
124, 134, 136, 143, 153, 182-3 

Duris, the Samian, on Alcibiades, 
xii, 143; Cicero on, ix, 155; on 
Pericles, xii, 66 

Dust, infusorial, in St. Jago, xxix, 
15 

Dutch, Goldsmith on the, xli, 540-1 

Duties, Customs, administration of, 
best, X, 552-5; discriminating, 370- 
88; excise and customs, 548; ex- 
emption from, 407, 425-6; high, 
effect of, 551-2; historically con- 
sidered, 548-50; on importation of 
necessities, 546; name, origin of, 
548; origin of, 479; of passage, 
558-9; protective, on foreign 
goods, 348-59; removal of, 365-9; 
retaliatory, 363-5; for revenue, 
369* 390; to equal taxes, 361-3; 
under U. S. Constitution, xliii, 
196 (8), 198 (5, 6), 199 (2, 3); 
for war purposes, x, 359-61 

Duty, Channing on, xxviii, 347; 
Confucius on, xliv, 54 (23); de- 
fined, xxxii, 365, 370; Emerson 
on, V, 26, 43, 79-80, 300-1; Epic- 
tetus on, ii, 118 (2), 151 (91), 
163 (124), 165 (132), 176 (170), 
176 (172), 184 (22); Hindu doc- 



218 



GENERAL INDEX 



trine of, xlv, 814; Hobbes on 
natural, xxxiv, 407-8, 417-29; im- 
peratives of, xxxii, 352-65, 384-6; 
Kant on, 327-35, 335-6, 337-43> 
356-7; Kempis on, vii, 232 (5); 
Laelius on, ix, 10; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 60, 62, 137; M. Aurelius 
on, ii, 201 (5), 218 (24), 220 
(33), 223 (i), 225 (6), 234 (2), 
238 (22), 239 (26), 251 (45); 
Mill on compulsion to, xxv, 213- 
14; Pascal on reminders of, xlviii, 
46 (104); perfect and imperfect, 
xxxii, 352 note; Poe on sense of, 
xxviii, 388; poetry, as the subject 
of, 388, 391; principles of, xxxii, 
37i-5» 363-4; Ruskin on, xxviii, 
98, 162; Vishnu Purana on, 433; 
Woolman on, i, 197; v^orth of, 
intrinsic, xxxii, 366, 370-1 

Duty, Ode to, by Wordsworth, xli, 
665-7 

Dyer, Chaucer's, xl, 21 

Dyer, Sir Edward, My Mind to Me, 
xl, 211-12 

Dyes, Woolman on, i, 324 

Dying Man in His Garden, xli, 

493-4 
Dymas, in ^neid, xni, 115, 116, 118 
Dyslogistic Fallacies, xxvii, 258-9 
Eadgils, xlix, 72 note 3, 73 note 
Eagerness, Confucius on, xliv, 27 

06) 
Eagle and Arrow, fable of, xvii, 43 
Eagle(s), in old England, xxxv, 356; 

Job's description of, xliv, 138; 

Manfred on, xviii, 412 
Eanmund, xlix, 72 note 3, 79 
Earle, John, letter of, xxxviii, 185-7 
Early "Piety, xlv, 577 
Early Rising, L,ocke on, xxxvii, 22, 

23 
Earnest Cry and Prayer, vi, 165- 

"flarnestness, Confucius on, xliv, 60 
(6); Kempis on, vii, 246 (7) 

Ears, drooping, cause of, xi, 29 

Earth, age of, xi, 335-9, 359-6o, 407- 
13; ancient opinions of its mo- 
tion, xxxix, 58; changes in, xi, 
360-2, ^ 404-5; xxxviii, 405-40; 
Copernicus on motion of the, 
xxxix, 55 60; Descartes on the, 
xxxiv, 37; Faraday on, xxx, 7-8; 
Geikie on past history of, 353-4; 
interior of the, 313-14, 319-21; 
Lactantius on the, xxxix, 60; 
Milton on, iv, 172, 198, 248-50, 266, 
311; motion of poles of, xxxiv, 
1 3 1-2; palpitation of, xxx, 297; 
Raleigh on changes in the, xxxix, 
112; rigidity of the, xxx, 313-14, 
519-21; Socrates's idea of the, ii, 
105-10; temperature of, changes 
in, xxxviii, 416 

Earth-Spirit, in Faust, xix, 24-6 



Earthly Paradise, Prologue op 
THE, xlii, 1240-1 

Earthquakes, Darwin on, xxix, 320- 
3i» 531; effect of, on the weather, 
37^-3 > ^y^}\ on, xxxviii, 428; ob- 
livion in, iii, 143; rain and, xxix, 
372-3; Woolman on, as judgments 
of God, i, 246 

Ease, after pain, iv, 65; Confucius 
on, xliv, 6 (14); deliciousness of, 
due to toil, xxviii, 324-5; Hobbes 
on desire for, xxxiv, 385; Tenny- 
son on, xlii, 1028-9, 1030-1; Yu- 
tzu on, xliv, 6 (12) 

Ease, Plain of, in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, III 

East India Company, end of, xxv, 
160; forts of, X, 478-9; Mill on, 
xxv, 22; mismanagement of, x, 
491 

Eastburn, Samuel, i, 243, 248, 256, 

259 
Easter, celebration of, xv, 408 
Easter, Spenser's, xl, 254 
Easter Choruses, in Faust, xix, 33-5 
Easter Song, by Herbert, xl, 355 
Eating, Augustine, St., on conti- 
nency in, vii, 191 -3; Conflicius 
on excessive, xliv, 62 (22) ; Locke 
on children's, xxxvii, 16-22, 32-3; 
Luther on freedom of, xxxvi, 325; 
More on pleasure of, 215; Peiin 
on, i, 345 (59) 
Ebusus, and Corynseus, xiii, 405 
Ecbatan, reference to, iv, 332 
Eccentricity, Mill on, xxv, 272-3 
Eccentrics, defined, iii, 48 note 
Eccius, John, xxxvi, 357, 358-9 
EccLESiASTES, BooK OF, Buddha, re- 
semblances of, to, xlv, 588; xliv, 
339-54; remarks on, 338; 1, 31 
Ecclesiastical Princedoms, xxxvi, 39- 

42 
Ecgtheow, xlix, 13, 16, 18 note 3 
Echecrates of Phlius, ii, 45-7, 81-2, 

96-7 
Echeneus, in the Odyssey, xxii, 98, 

160-1 
Echephron, son of Nestor, xxii, 45 
Echctus, the king, xxii, 257, 303 
Echinades, Herodotus on the, 

xxxiii, 9 
Echion, father of Pentheus, viii, 
37 1» 372} husband of Agave, 408 
Echo, the nymph, Dante on, xx, 
335 note 3; Milton on, iv, 52; 
Shelley on, xli, 883^ 
Echoes, by Moore, xli, 842-3 
Eclipses, foretold by ancient phi- 
losophers, vii, 67; ^ Pericles^ on, 
xii, 74; signs of ill, xlviii, 65 

(^73) 
Economical Table, of Quesnal, x, 

458, 465 
Economists, of France, x, 464-5; on 

land taxes, 503 



GENERAL INDEX 



219 



Economy, beauty in, v, 314; Burke 
on true, xxiv, 418; Emerson on, 
V, 55; of nature, xi, 159-60 

Ecstasy, An, xl, 350-1 

Ector, Sir, in the Holy Grail, xxxv, 
164-6, 167-8, 169-70, 171, 189,215, 
216 

Ed-Dejjal, Muslim Antichrist, xvi, 
251 note 

Ed-Dimiryat, king of the Jinn, xvi, 
Z22, 323, 324 

Edda, Elder, Songs from the, xlix, 
383-464; remarks on, 266-8 

Edelfla, the tree, xxxix, 12 

Eden, Burns on, vi, 150; Dante in, 
XX, 260-86; Milton on, iv, 160-1, 
162-4 

Edgar, king of England, navy of, 
xxxv, 380; and the wolves, 359 

Edgar, in King Lear, Edmund and, 
xlvi, 213-15, 216-17, 295-8; flight 
of, 230, 238-9; Gloucester and, 
267-9, 276-9, 282-5, 291; Goneril's 
letter found by, 284, 290; Lear 
and. 260-3; as madman, 255-9; 
madness of, remarks on, 202; 
solilc quy of, 266-7 

Edh-Dhubyani, Arab poet, xvi, 312 
note I 

Edinborough, Franklin on men of, i, 
16 

Edinburgh, built of foreign timber, 
x, 177; industries of, 2T7 

Edinburgh, Address to, vi, 264-6 

Edinburgh Review, Emerson on the, 
V, 327; establishment of, xxvii, 
236; Mill on, XXV, 63-4, 142; Whig 
organ, xxvii, 380; Wordsworth on, 
V, 483 

Editors, Carlyle on, xxv, 463; John- 
son on, xxxix, 247, 254-60; Steven- 
son on duty of, xxviii, 295 

Edmund, in King Lear, bastard son 
of Gloucester, xlvi, 204; Albany 
and, 290-1, 293-4; before battle, 
2po-i; character of, 202; confes- 
sion of, 297, 299-300; Curan and, 
229-30; death of, 301; Edgar and, 
212-17, 230-1, 296; Gloucester and, 
253» 259; Goneril and, 263, 269- 
70, 284; Lear and Cordelia with, 
291-2; Regan and, 276, 288-9 

Education, Channing on, xxviii, 
370-2; Confucius on, xliv, 46 
(28), 55 (38); Emerson on, v, 

SI5» 50-3, 200-1, 2(i^-'Jy 2-]2-y, 
pictetus on ^ lack of, ii,^ 156 
(105); Franklin on female, i, 16, 
97-8; Goethe on, xxv, ^ 398-9; 
Goethe on, of artists, xxxix, 265, 
268-70, 278-9; Hippocrates on, 
xxxviii, 4;^ Hume on importance 
of, xxxvii, 376; Huxley on, 
xxviii, 218-31; Kant on moral, 
xxxii, 341 note 2; Luther on, 
xxxvi, 338-43; Marcus Aurelius 



on, ii, 193 (4); Mill on-j xxv, 9, 
29, 30, 39. TZy 90-i» 112, 116, 119, 
314-17; Newman on, xxviii, 31- 
38; Pascal on, xlviii, 17 (34), 37- 
8, 41 (95); Penn on, i, 337*9; 
Pliny on, ix, 316-18, 336; Ruskin 
on, xxviii, 96, 105, 114, 139, 140, 
1 51-61; Schiller on, xxxii, 219- 
313; Smith on, x, 138-43, 228, 
485-6; in Utopia, xxxvi, 244-5; 
Vaughan on, i, 73; Washington 
on need of public, xliii, 260; 
Wordsworth on, v, 336 

Education, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 
103-4 

Education, Locke's Thoughts Con- 
cerning, xxxvii, 5-195; remarks 
on, 3, 4 

Education, Milton's Tractate on, 
ill, 247-259; remarks on, 246 

Education of Children, Mon- 
taigne's, xxxii, 29-73 

Education of the Human Race, 
xxxii, 193-217; remarks on, 1, 35, 42 

Education of Women, by Defoe, 
xxvii, 158-61; remarks on, 1, 42 

Edward, a ballad, xl, 56-8 

Edward I, of England, Dante on, 
XX, 176 note 16, 369, note 8 

Edward II, of England, in abbey, 
xlvi, 60-1; at Berkeley, 67-8, 77-8; 
at Boroughbridge, 48-9; capture 
of, 61-3; crown yielded by, 65-7; 
delights of, 7; death of, 79-80; 
flight of, 57-9; Gaveston and, xlvi, 
5, 7-18, 23-4, 28-30, 34-5, 40, 46-7; 
Gurney and Matrevis with, 70, 
72-4; Isabella, Queen, and, 18- 
i9» 22-Zy 34; iii» 53; in Kenil- 
worth Castle, xlvi, 64-5 ; nobles' 
quarrel with, 32-4, 50-1, 55-6; 
Normandy lost by, 45; Raleigh on 
murder of, xxxix, 75; Spencer 
and, xlvi, 43-4, 47-8; at Tyne- 
mouth, 37 

Edward the Second, xlvi, 5-84; 
remarks on, 3; Lamb on, 4 

Edward III, in Edward the Second, 
xlvi, 45» 52-4. 58, 7i» 1^-7^ 81, 
82-4; in France (see Crecy) ; St, 
Patrick's Purgatory and, xxxii, 
187; Raleigh on, xxxix, 75-6; vic- 
tories over kings, xxxv, 233 

Edward IV, beauty of, iii, 112; 
census of England under, xxxv, 
243; founder of King's College, 
401; licence to sheep exporters, 
347; Raleigh on, xxxix 78-9 

Edward V, murder 01, xxxix, 79 

Edward the Confessor, miracles of, 
xlvi, 359-60 

Edward, the Black Prince (see 
Black Prince) 

Edwardes, Richard, Amantium IrvE» 
xl, 204-6 



220 



GENERAL INDEX 



Edwards, Jonathan, Hazlitt on, 
xxvii, 291 

Edwards, Milne, on organization, xi, 
135; on physiological division of 
labor, 126; on types, 471 

Eels, in Egypt, xxxiii, 38 

Effects, Pascal on reason of, xlviii, 
III (315) 

Effiat, Marquis d*, and Bacon, xxxiv, 
100 

Effort, Channing on value of, xxviii, 
324; Confucius on, xliv, 21 (20); 
EccLESiASTES ou usclessncss of, 
xliv, 339-42, 345 (15-16); John- 
son on high, xxxixj 208 

Efrits, species of genii, xvi, 9 note 

Egbert, the navy of, xxxv, 380 

Egerton, Lady Alice, in Comus, iv, 
46 

Egerton, Lord, Jonson on, xxvii, 61 

Egerton, Thomas, in Comus, iv, 46 

Eggs, number of, as securing against 
destruction, xi, 81 

Egidio, in The Betrothed, xxi, 180, 
32^, 338-9 

Egidius, the disciple, xx, 333 note 
18 

Egil, Emerson on, v, 357 

Eglemore, Sir, xiv, loi 

Eglentyne, Madame, in Canterbury 
Tales, xl, 14 

Egmont, Goethe's, xix, 247-331; re- 
marks on, 246 

Egmont, Count, Alva and, xix, 294, 
299, 301-2, 303-10; arrested, 310- 
11; Clara and, 262-4, 288-92, 311- 
15; Ferdinand and, 301, 323-9; 
historically, 242; Margaret and, 
257-9; Netherlanders' love of, 248, 
249-50; with Orange, 278-84; in 
prison, 315-17; Raleigh on, xxxix, 
91; rashness of, xix, 277', 
rioters and, 271-2; on way to scaf- 
fold, 330-1; with secretary, 273-8; 
hears his senfnce, 322-3; sleep 
and vision, 329-30 

Ego, Berkeley on the, xxxvii, 269- 
71; Buddhist denial of the, xlv, 
668-75; Pascal on, xlviii, 112 
(323), 158 (469); Schiller on, 
xxxii, 252-5 

Egotism, Emerson on value of, v, 
243-4; Kant on, xxxii, 354, 361; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 155 (457) 
Egremont, Earl of, i, 51 
Egypt, agriculture of, xxxiii, 1 1 ; 
artificial lake in, 76-7', canals of, 
53-4, 81; civilization of, why early, 
X, 27', "Deserters" of, xxxiii, 18- 
19; fathers and sons in, x, 66; 
freedom in ancient, v, 93 ; gods in, 
xxxiii, 74; xxxviii, 407; history 
of, xxxiii, 48-91; Israel in, xliv, 
442-4; kings of, xxxiii, 7, 48-91; 
labyrinth of, 75-6; land of, nature 



and extent, 7-14; pigeons in an- 
cient, xi, 43; plagues of, iv, 350; 
xhv, 246 (43-51), 281 (27-36); 
pyramids of, xxxiii, 64-6, 68, 70; 
Rousseau on arts of, xxxiv, i8i; 
shipping in ancient, iii, 165; spe- 
cies in, unchanged, xi, 220; 
wealth of ancient, x, 309; won- 
ders of, xxxiii, 21 

Egypt,^ Account of, Herodotus's, 
xxxiii, 5-91; remarks on, 3; 1, 18 

Egyptian Feasts, skeleton at, xxxii, 
16, 20 

Egyptians, anointing among, xxxiii, 
47; antiquity of the, 5-6, 12; ath- 
letics among, 44-5; boats and navi- 
gation of, 47-8; calendar of the, 
7; chronology of the, xxxiv, 130; 
circumcision anjong, xxxiii, 51; 
classes among the, 84-5; costumes, 
41-2; diet and feasts of, 40-1, 45- 
6; divination among, 42; of the 
fens, 45-7; gnats, manner of pro- 
tection from, 47; gods of the, 7, 
26-31, 74-5, 80-1; health, care of, 
40; hero-worship not practised by, 
30; lotos and papyrus eaters, 45- 
6; manners and customs of the, 
21-2; medical skill of. Homer on, 
xxii, 54; medicine among, xxxiii, 
42; memory of, 40; mode of 
greeting, 41 ; monogamy practised 
by, 45; mourning and burial cus- 
toms, 42-4; old age, respect for, 
41; oracles of, 33, 42, 80; Perseus 
worshipped by, 44-S; religious 
celebrations of, 33-5; religious 
customs, 22-3; sacred animals of, 
23-9, 35-40; sanctity of temples, 
35; song of, 41; transmigration 
believed in by, 6^ 

Ehrenberg, on infusoria, xxix, 15; 
on phosphorescence of sea, 177 

Eichthal, Gustave d*, xxv, 109 

Eidothee, daughter of Proteus, xxii, 

57-9 
Eimeo, island of, xxix, 429 
Ekphantus, on motion of earth, 

xxxix, 58 
Elaine, mother of Galahad, xxxv, 

214 (see Galahad, birth of); 

Renan on, xxxii, 160-1 
Eland, Gumming on the, xxviii, 422 
Elasticity, force of, xxx, 197-202 
Elater, Darwin on the, xxix, 41 
Elatreus, in the games, xxii, 107 
El-Bakbuk, story of, xvi, .173-7 
Elbe, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 119 
Elbo, island of Anysis, xxxiii, 72 
Elder Edda, Songs from the, xlix, 

383-464 
Eldon, Lord, and the cartoons, v, 
434; Holdship and, 384-5; on im- 
pressment, 378; never "ratted," 

391 
£1 Dorado, city of, xxxiii, 313, 328* 



GENERAL INDEX 



221 



330, 331-3; Milton on, iv, 333; 
Smith on, x, 422 
Elect, Pascal on the, xlviii, 192 

(575), 193 (577) ^ 
Election, doctrine of eternal, xxxix, 

53 

Election Ballad, vi, 402-6 

Election Ballad for Westerha', 
vi, 392-3 

Election Expenses, Mill on, xxv, 179 

Elective Franchise, Emerson on the, 
V, 251-2; Mill on the, xxv, 165; 
in U. S., xliii, 211 (15) (see also 
Suffrage) 

Electoral College, first provision for, 
xliii, 199-200; amended provision, 
209-10, 211 

Electra, daughter of Atlas, xiii, 2^6', 
Dante on, xx, 20 and note 5 ; in 
The Libation-Bearers, viii, 74- 
95 ; Voltaire on, xxxix, 383 

Electric Fish, xi, 198-200 

Electricity, and the ether, xxx, 2T(i, 
277 'y Franklin on, i, 153-S; mag- 
netism and, xxx, 84-7, 215; mo- 
tive force of, 214-17; production 
of, 62-6, 76-84, 214, 215; trans- 
ferability of,^ 69-74 

Electro-magnetism, xxx, 86, 215 

Elegance, born, not bred, v, 22^', 
Burke on, xxiv, 102-3; true, in 
few wants, v, 56^ 

Elegiac Poets, Milton on, xxviii, 
179-80 

Elegy, Sidney on the, xxvii, 29; 
Wordsworth on the, xxxix, 313 

Elegy, by Byron, xli, 810 

Elegy in a Country Churchyard, 
Gray's, xl, 455-9 

Eleians, in Egypt, xxxiii, 82-3 

Elements, creation of the, xx, 315- 
16 

Elephantine, Herodotus on, xxxiii, 9 

Elephants, habits of, xxix, 96; in- 
crease of, xi, 79-80; insects and, 
370; seldom destroyed by beasts 
of prey, 83; weight of, xxix, 99 

Eleu Loro, xli, 759-60 

Eleusis, chapel 01, at Athens, xii, 51 

Eleutheria, establishment of the, xii, 
102 

Elevation, coral reefs and land, 
xxix, 505-6; Lyell on, of land, 
xxxviii, 423, 428, 431, 433 

El-Fadl, the vizier, xvi, 203-10 

El-Feshsharf, story of, xvi, 187-94 

Elfin Mound, The, xvii, 276-83 

Elfmounds, champions of the, xlix, 
256 

Elgin, song of, Burns on, vi, 145 

Elgin, Lord, and the Greek remains, 
V, 374 

El-Heddar, story of , xvi, 177-80 

Eli, name of Chief Good, xx, 399; 
sons of, iv, 102 

Elian le Blank, xxxv, 17^ 



Elias, Calvin on, xxxix, 43, 47, St. 

James on, xlviii, 308 (868) 
Eliazar, and Argusus, xxxv, 162; 

son of Pelies, 218, 219, 220 
Eligius, St., xl, 14 note 68 
Elihu, son of Barachel, xliv, 123-34; 

remarks on speech of, 72 
Elijah, Augustine on, vii, 193; 

Bunyan on, xv, 161; Jesus and, 

xliv, 384 (30); Milton on, iv, 372, 

376, 382; Zarephath and, xliv, 

369 (25-6) 
Eliot, John, Brief Narrative, xliii, 

147-56; life and works of, 147 

note; on wine, v, 130 
Eliott, Sir Thomas, xxxvi, 140-1 
Eliphaz, the Temanite, xliv, 75, 77^ 

95, 107, 142-3 
Elisabat, the barber, xiv, 219, 222 
Elisabeth, mother of John, xliv, 357 

(5-7)» 358 (13, 24-5), 359 (36, 41- 

5). 360 (57-60) 
Elisha, and Naaman, xliv, 369 {27} 
Eliwlod, xxxii, 176-7 
Elixir, Sir Mammon on the, xlvii, 

542 
Elixir, The, xl, 352 
Eliza, Farewell to, vi, 228 
Eliza, Queen of the Shepherds, 

xl, 250-2 
Elizabeth, L. H., Epitaph on, xI, 

304 
Elizabeth, of Bohemia, Walton on, 

XV, 350, 351 
Elizabeth of Bohemia, xl, 294-5 
Elizabeth, Queen of England, Drake 
and, xxxiii, 126, 130-1; in The 
Faerie Queene, xxxix, 66; Harri- 
son on progresses of, xxxv, 345; 
Hugo on, xxxix, 374; Johnson on 
times of, 229; literary age of, 
xviii, 3; Mary Queen of Scots 
on, vi, 421; the navy of, xxxv, 
376-78;^ Philip II and, xxxiii, 
234; pictures of, xxxix, 84; Ra- 
leigh and, 70 note i; xxxiii^ 310; 
secretaries of, stories of, iii, 60, 
62; Sidney and, xv, 388; stockings 
first worn by, x, 214 
Elizabethan Age, Emerson on the, 

V, 452-5 
Elizabethan Dramas, xlvi, xlvii 
Elizabethan England, ale-drinking 
in, xxxv, 300-1; ale-houses in, 
257; apparel and attire, 304-7; 
the church in, 264, 268-84; cities, 
towns, bishoprics, parishes, and 
estates of, 242-7; climate, soil, 
and products, 323-34; commerce 
of, 236-8; customs of, 349; 
degrees of people in, 229-41 ; 
dishes of, 314, 339; dogs in, 369- 
75; fairs and markets, 256-63, 
346; food and diet in, 285-303; 
fowls, wild and tame, 352-8; gar- 



222 



GENERAL INDEX 



dens and orchards of, 248-55; 
holidays in, 279; houses and 
furniture in, 308-14, 325-6; inter- 
est in, 315-16; laws and licences 
in, 331-2; learning in, xxxix, 236- 
7, 240; live stock of, xxxv, 343-51 *> 
luxuries of life in, 313-15. 339; 
manners in, 235-6, 239-40, 244, 
287-89, 292-4, 301-3; minerals and 
metals, 335-42; navy and shipping 
of, 376-81; poor relief, beggars, 
vagabonds, and jugglers, z'^?-^^'^ 
punishment of vagabonds, 321-2; 
punishments of crime in, 382-90; 
rents and tenures, 314-15, 316; 
universities of, 391-404; wealth 
of, 314-15, 316; wild beasts, ver- 
min, and insects, 359-68; woolen 
manufactures in, 347 

Elizabethan England, Description 
OF, xxxv, 227-404 

Elizabethan Language, Johnson on, 
xxxix, 206 

El-Kuz el Aswani, story of, xvi, 

184-7 
Ellesmere, Lord, relations with 

John Donne, xv, 330, 331, 332-3 
Elliot, Sir Gilbert, xl, iii 
Elliot, Jane, Lament for Flodden, 

xli, 495-6 
Elliot of Lariston, xli, 787 
Elliott, Willie, and Scott, xxv, 4^1 
Ellis, Sarah, wife of Woolman, i, 

195 

Ellis, William, xxv, 56, 66, 81, 83 

El-Mihraj, the king, xvi, 250 

Elmire, in Tartuffe, Cleante and, 
xxvi, 197-8; Orgon and, 254-8; 
265-6; Pernelle and, 189-90, 196; 
Tartuffe and, 236-43, 258-64, 272, 
278, 281, 283 

El-M6in, the vizier, xvi, 203-20, 
236-8, 241 

El-Muntasir bi-llah, Caliph, xvi, 171- 
172 

Eloquence, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
71; Burke on, xxiv, 136-48, 314; 
Carlyle on, xxv, 394-6; Descartes 
on study of, xxxiv, 8, 9; Hobbes 
on, 375, 387; Hume on, xxxvii, 
403-4; Milton on, iv, 125; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 6^, 66; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 10, 12-13, I5 (25-6); 
Penn on, i, 352-3; Pliny on, ix, 
364-67; Woolman on, i, 326 

Elpenor, and Artemidora, xli, 927; 
Homer on, xxii, 151, 153-4, 169 

Elivhinstone's Translations, On, 
vi, 277 

Elpinice, sister of Cimon, xii, 47; 
Pericles and, 66-7 

Elsie, Clever, story of, xvii, 129 

Elspeth, in Wilhelm Tell, xxvi, 
424-5, 427-8 

Ely, Island of, xxxv, 331, 334 



Elymas, the sorcerer, xliv, 458 (8-it) 

Elysian Fields, ^Eneas's visit to, xiii, 

233; Britain reputed locality of, 

xxxv, 323; Homer on the, xxii, 

63 

Elysium, Socrates on, il, 107-8, iio 

Emancipation, Lincoln and, xxviii, 

455-60 
Emancipation Proclamation, xliii, 
344-6; Emerson on the, xlii, 1313 
note 
Emathian Conqueror, Alexander 

called the, iv, 80 
Embalming, in ancient Egypt, xxxiii, 

42-4 
Embassies, origin of, x, 479 
Embellishment, is deformity, v, 312 
Emblems, use of, v, 174-5, 182 
Embryo Spirit, in Faust, xix, 178 
Embryological Characters, in classi- 
fication, xi, 456 
Embryological Resemblances, xi, 261 
Embryology, Darwin on, xi, 478-90 
Embryos, early death of, xi, 314-15; 
in Milton's Linibo, iv, 150; pic- 
tures of past, xi, 388 
Emendation, Johnson on, xxxix, 

255-60 
Emeria, country of, xxxiii, 336 note 

2Zy 342 

Emerson, Ralph Waldo, Carlyle and, 
xxv, 331; English Traits, v, 327- 
493; Essays of, 5-321; life and 
work of, 3-4; Lowell on, xxviii, 
481; personal acquaintances in 
England, v, 481-5; Poems by, 
xlii, 1292-1316; remarks on, 1, 36; 
Speech at Manchester, v, 490- 
3; visit to Stonehenge, 471-81 
Emigrants in Bermuda, xl, 385-6 
Emilius, Paulus (see -^milius) 
Eminence, Confucius on, xliv, 41 

(20); verses on, xvi, 246 
Emlen, Samuel, i, 302-4, 314 
Emmet, ^sop's fable of the, xxxiii, 

^ 133 

Emmets (see Ants) 

Emonides, death of, xiii, 345 

Emotions, Emerson on the, v, 70, 
74; Mill on the, xxv, 37; Steven- 
son on display of, xxviii, 290-1 

Empedocles, Bacon on, iii, 69; in 
Dante's Limbo, xx, 20; on evolu- 
tion, xi, 6;^ in Milton's Limbo, 
iv, 150; Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii» 
121; Sidney on, xxvii, 9; sphere 
of, ii, 299 (3); on the world, 
xxxix, 109-10 

Emperor's New Clothes, The, xvii, 

Empire, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 50- 

55 

Employers (see Capitalists) 

Employment, necessary to content- 
ment, i, 147-8; Woolman on, 245 

Employments, Johnson on the lower. 



GENERAL INDEX 



223 



xxxix, 191; Smith on, x, 65-6, 

106-52 
Empty Sack, proverb of the, i, 96 
Emulation, Bacon on, between 

brothers, iii, 21; envy and, xl, 

430; defined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 

Enceladus, and ^tna, xiii, 150 
Enchanted Ground, in Pil,grim's 

Progress, xv, 140-1, 305-8 
Enclos, Ninon de 1', xxvii, 294 
Enclosures, advantage of, x, 160; 

Democritus and Columella on, 163; 

effect of, xi, 85-6 
Encolpius, reader to Pliny, ix, 332 
Encyclopaedists, Burke on the, xxiv, 

259; Carlyle on the, xxv, 350 
End of the Play, xlii, 1099 
Endicott, Gov., xliii, 93 
Endor, Witch of, iii, 95; xviii, 423 
Endowments, Carlyle on, xxv, 391- 

2; Mill on, 119 
Ends, Kant's kingdom of, xxxii, 364, 

367 note, 369-70 
Endurance, Locke on, xxxvii, loo-i, 

106-8 
Endymion, called Latmian shepherd, 

xl, 248 
Enemies, fable of despicable, xvii, 

17; fable on promises of, 29-30; 

Jesus on loving, xliv, 374 (^2-]^ 

35) 
Energy, Hume on idea of, xxxvii, 

355-70; ill-temper and, xxviii, 

181-2 (see also Force) 
Engagements, Mill on liberty of, 

xxv, 311-13 
En-gedi, reference to, xli, 497 
Engelier, the Gascon, xlix, 125, 142, 

145, 152, 178 
Enghien, Due d*, xxxviii, 24 
Engines, Helmholtz on, xxx, 199- 

202; improvement in, due to boy, 

X, 15 
England, Alfieri, on, v, 343; m 
American Civil War, xxv, 172-3; 
xxviii, 118; apprenticeships in, 
x, 127-9; artificiality of, v, 376-7; 
Carlyle on history of, xxv, 382-3; 
Catholic Church in, xxxv, 264-8, 
279, 280; climate and situation, v, 
343-9; coasts of, action of sea on, 
xxxv, 336-7; commercial laws of, 
X, 425-45; country of contradic- 
tions, V, 376; Elizabethan (see 
Elizabethan England) ; estates of, 
422-3; first book in, xxxix, 5 note; 
food in, xxxv, 249, 257, 349-51 » 
353» 354» 365-6; foreign policy, v, 
486; France and, in trade, x, 
385-6; France and, in war, iii, 
79; free trade movement in, xxv, 
67; Goldsmith on, xli, 541-3; in- 
fluence of, V, 344-5; interest, rates 
of, in, x, 94-5; liberalism in, xxv, 
67-8; liberty, ideas of, in, 210-11; 



luxury and rioting in, xxxvi, 156- 
7; Milton on, iii, 226, 233-5, 237; 
minerals and metals, xxxv, 336-42; 
money of, x, 45-6; More on 
causes of theft in, xxxvi, 151-7; 
names of places in, v, 421; Nor- 
man, navy of, xxxv, 380; pauper- 
ism in, V, 486; peerage of, Car- 
lyle on, xxv, 388-9; penalties in, 
xliii, 97-8; poor laws of, x, 145- 
50; post-office established in, ix, 
388 note; press of, v, 465-71; 
prices in, i, 318; x, 203-5, 213-4; 
xxxv, 236-7, 240-1, 259-61; progress 
of wealth of, x, 285-7; races of, 
V, 365-6; Raleigh on, xxxix, 75- 
84; Royal Society and Academies 
of, xxxiv, 158-62; Saxon, x, 32, 
202; xxxv, 380; sea-power of, iii, 
84; serving men in, xxxvi, 152-4; 
sheep-raising in, 154-6; stages in 
(1772), i, 318-0; state of (i782),' 
xxiv, 407-8; Tennyson on, xlii, 
1032; Thomson on, xl, 453-4; 
trade treaty with Portugal, x, 408- 
13; universities of, v, 432-40; 
wages in, i, 318; x, 80-1, 150-1; 
weights and measures in, xxxv, 
261-2; Winthrop on government 
of, xliii, 97; Wordsworth on, xli, 
690-691, 693; workmanship in, 
xxxv, 240, 339 

England and Switzerland, xli, 691 

England, Bank of, operations of, x, 
252, 253; power of, V, 412; 
privileges of, x, 483; profits of, 
490 

England, Church of, Browne on, 
iii, 268; Burke on, xxiv, 247-52; 
Defoe on establishment of, xxvii, 
143-57; under Elizabeth, xxxv, 
264, 268-84; Emerson on, v, 441-8; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 79-82 

England, My England, xlii, 1259- 
60 

England, Ye Mariners of, xli, 
797-8 

English, ability of the, v, 375; 
American interest in the, 52; 
aristocracy, 417-32; Austin on the, 
xxv, 116; belles lettres among 
the, xxxiv, 143-58; brutality among 
the, v, 359-60; Burke on the, xxiv, 
234-5; character of the, v, 395- 
6, 397-8; character summarized, 
485-90; close union of the, 379- 
80; Cockayne, 402-3 ; constitutional 
force, 396; courage and tender- 
ness of, 361-2; diet of, 362-3; 
dinner among the, 386-7; domes- 
tic life of the, 383-4; dulness of 
the, 392-3; freedom of, 369-70; 
Goldsmith on the, xli, 541-2; gov- 
ernment of the, xxxiv, 86, 93; 
hatred of pretension, v, 386; 
horsemanship of, 364; industry 



VOL. L — HC (8) 



224 



GENERAL INDEX 



and machinery, 410-12; literature 
of, 449-64; love of custom, 384- 
5;^ love of home, 383; love of 
private independence, 401-2; ma- 
chinery, results of, on, 415-16; 
maritime inclinations of the, 360; 
mechanical tendencies of the, 381; 
Mill on the, xxv, 42, 43, 99-100, 
153-4; Mirabeau on the, xxviii, 
482; moroseness, v, 393-5; nar- 
row patriotism of, 403-4; natural 
sincerity of the, 387-92; patience 
of the, 373; pertinacity of the, 
374; physique of, 360-1; plain- 
dealing of the, 367-8; pluck of 
the, 380; practicalness 01, 368-9; 
pride in wealth, 407-9; propriety 
of the, 385-6; prosperity, love of, 
372; the race, 349-59» .365-6; re- 
ligion of, 440-9; xxiv, 238-9; 
religious sects among the, xxxiv, 
65-85; respect for property, 413- 
14; Ruskin on the, xxviii, 118- 
30; sea supremacy of the, v, 343; 
self-esteem, 404-5; social system, 
artificiality of, 377-8; sports of, 
363 ; stoutness of mind of the, 
396; Taine on the, xxxix, 440, 
444, 449; testiness of the, v, 399; 
thoroughness of the, 373; trade 
of the, xxxiv, 93-4; travelers, 396- 
7; underlying strength, 401; uni- 
versities, 432-40; utility, love of, 
^70-1, 460-2; vigor of the, 381-2; 
in war, 371-2; wars of the, xxxiv, 
86-8; wealth of the, v, 411-12, 
413; wealth, use of, 416-17; 



Wordsworth on the, xli, 692 
NGLisH, Letters o^ 
taire's, xxxiv, 65-162 



r"v 



ol- 



English Channel, tides of, xxx, 

301-2 
English Civil War, Marvell on, xl, 

379; Vane on, xliii, 129-30 
English Comedy, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 

139-43 

English Commonwealth, Milton on 
the, xxviii, 194-5; discussion un- 
der the, 196 (see also Instru- 
ment OF Government) 

English Drama, blank verse in, xix, 
198; gentility in, v, 125; Shake- 
speare and, xxxix, 240-1, 243-4; 
Shakespearized, v, 10; in Shake- 
speare's time, xxxix, 240-1; (i6th 
century) Sidney on, xxvii, 46-9; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 133-43 

English Dramas, Modern, xviii 

English Essays, xxvii 

English Language, Caxton on old, 
xxxix, 26-7; Dryden on, xiii, 56; 
Johnson on, xxxix, 191-206; Locke 
on study pf, xxxvii, 173-4; Mil- 
ton on, iii, 208; iv, 21; Sidney 
on, xxvii, 52-3; Whitman on the, 
xxxix, 430 

English Law, Mill on, xxv, 46 



English Literature, Bagehot oHj 
xxviii, 183; Emerson on, v, 449- 
64; in 17th century, xxxix, 452; 
Taine on, 461-2; Thoreau on, 
xxviii, 426 

English Literature, Introduction 
TO Taine's, xxxix, 433-62 

English Money, Smith on, x, 33-4 

English Philosophers, xxxiv, 317- 
434; xxxvii 

English Poetry, Arnold's review of, 
xxviii, 75-90; Eliot on, 1, 9; Em- 
erson on, V, 186; Wordsworth's 
retrospect of, xxxix, 333*47 

English Poetry, xl, xli, xlii 

English Revolution, Burke on prin- 
ciples of, xxiv, 164-81; Price on 
the, 164 

English Tragedy, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 

133-8 
English Traits, Emerson's, v, 327- 

493; remarks on, 1, 52 
Enid's Song, xlii, 1007 
Enipeus, and Tyro, xxii, 158 
Enis-el-Jelis, story of, xvi, 203-41 
Enjoyment, of the present, xliv, 
342 (12-13, 24), 346 (18-19), 350 
(15); social, ii, 118 (3); tem- 
perance in, 198 
Enlightenment, Kempis's prayer for, 

vii, 298-9 
Enna, field of, iv, 164 
En-Nabighah, Arab poet, xvi, 312 

note I 
Ennius, on death, ix, 72-3; Dryden 
on, xxxix, 171; on Fabius, ix, 
49; old age of, 50-1; on principles 
of nature, xxvii, 65 ; quoted, ix, 
15-31; Shelley on, xxvii, 361; Sid- 
ney on, 9, 40 
Enoch, Bunyan on, xv, 161; iden- 
tified with Idris, xlv, 922 note 5; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 205; book of, 
214 
Enoch's Pillars, iii, 289 note 53 
Ens, father of the Predicaments, 

iv, 22 
Entellus, character of, xiii, 62; 

Dares and, 195-8 
Enteritis, Holmes on, xxxviii, 260 
Enthusiasm, Emerson on, v, 58, 
166; method of divination, xxxiv, 

397 
Envier and Envied, story of, xvi, 

84-7 
Envious Wezir, story of, xyl, 39-40 
Environment, Taine on, xxxix, 447-9 
Envy, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 23-8 
Envy, iEschylus on, viii, 34; Augus- 
tine, St., on, vii, 30; Bacon on 
extinguishing of, iii, 136; begin- 
nings of, xxxiv, 209; Blake on, 
xli, 602; Burns on, vi, 94; Dante 
on, XX, 203; in I3ante's Purga- 
tory, 198; death and, iii, 11; de- 
fined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 356; 



GENERAL INDEX 



225 



Emerson on, v, 64; emulation and, 
xl, 430; fable on, xvii, 32-3; 
Moliere on, xxvi, 270; physical 
effects of, xxxviii, 131; Penn on, 
i, 362 (267-9), 398-9; public, 
Penn on, 370 (367) ; sin of, in 
Faustus, xix, 221; Socrates on, 
ii, 15; the vice of republics, xlii, 

1355 
Envy, in Pii^grim's Progress^ xv, 

98-9 
Eocene Period, in Europe, xxx, 

362-3 
Eocene Strata, Lyell on, xxxviii, 

425-6 
Eochaid Peidlech, xlix, 211-13 
Eofor, xlix, 75 note i, 88, 89 
Eomer, in Beowulf, xlix, 60 
Eos, and Kephalos, viii, 307 
Eotens, sword of, xlix, 49, 51, 52-3, 

79 
Eozoon, Darwin on the, xi, 360 
Epaminondas, Bacon on, iii, 106; 

Cicero on death of, ix, 106; on 

death, xxxii, 7; Emerson on, v, 

132, 211; Pascal on, xlviii, 121 

(353); Plutarch on, xii, 155, 195- 

6; poverty of, 80; Sidney on, 

xxvii, 44 
Epaphos, child of Zeus and lo, viii, 

185; the same as Apis, xxxiii, 79 
Epaphroditus, freedman of Octavius, 

xii, 398 
Epaphroditus, master of Epictetus, 

ii, 116; and the shoemaker, 130 

(40) 
Epeius, and the horse of Troy, xviii, 

112; xxii, 117 
Ephesian Books, burning of the, iii, 

212 
Ephesians, on examples of virtue, 

ii, 297 (26) 
Ephesus, Herodotus on plains about, 

xxxiii, 9 
Ephialtes, the Athenian, xii, 43, 46; 

murder of, 47-8 
Ephialtes, the giant, in Dante's 

Hell, xx, 131, 132; Homer on, 

xxii, 160 (see also Alaean Twins) 
Ephorus, and Theopompus, ix, 152 
Ephraim, children of, xliv, 244 (9) ; 

Milton on, iv, 425-6; son of Jacob, 

xlviii, 241 
Epic and Saga, xlix 
Epic Poetry, Dryden on, xiii, 5-1 1, 

14; xxxix, 165-6; Fielding on, 

184; Hugo on, 357-9. 370, 371. 

372; Milton on, v, 181; Poe on, 

xxviii, 384; Sidney on, xxvii, 31- 

2; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 313 
Epic Poetry, Dryden on, xiii, 5-1 1, 

Shelley*s, xxvii, 366 
Epicaste, in Hades, xxii, 159 
Epicharmus, rule of, ix, 122; on 

the understanding, xxxii, 39 



Epicles, of Hermione, xii, 9 
Epicrates of Acharnae, xii, 27; 
Cicero the Younger on, ix, 182 
Epics, prose, xxxix, 184-5 
Epictetus, on anger, xlviii, 34 (80) ; 
banishment of, ix, 250 note; on 
changes, ii, 298 (35); on con- 
sistency, xlviii, 121; corn-superin- 
tendent and, ii, 125 (24): on de- 
sire and avoidance, 298 (37); on 
free will, 298 (36) ; (Golden Say- 
ings OF, 117-86; Governor of 
Cnossus and, 151 (93); on him- 
self, 159 (114); Hume on i)hi- 
losophy of, xxxvii, 337; on im- 
possibilities, ii, 297 (33) ; life and 
teachings of, 116; Marcus Aure- 
lius's acquaintance with, 194 (7); 
Pascal on, xlviii, 13 (18), 144 
(431), 157 (466-7), 392-5, 402-6; 
priest of Augustus and, ii, 131 
(43); the rich man and, 126 (25); 
on soul and body, 221 (41); the 
thief and, 120 (11); on words of 
bad omen, 297 (34) ; the young 
man and, 140 (65) 
Epicureans, Bacon on, iii, 8 
Epicurism, Locke on, xxxvii, 32 
Epicurus, Aristophanes on, xxxii, 
66; in Athens, iii, 204; xxviii, 
59; xxxvii, 416; Augustine, St., 
on, vii, 100; Chaucer on, xl, 20; 
Dante on, xx, 41 ; freedom from 
citations, xxxii, 31; on God, iii, 
45; Hugo on, xxxix, 360; on man 
as proper study of self, iii, 28; 
Mill on, XXV, 36; not an atheist, 
iii, 285; on pain, ii, 254 (64); 
on philosophy, xxxii, 55; property 
of, xxviii, 61; quotation from, 
xxxix, 120; religious principles of , 
xxxvii, 417-25; on sickness, ii, 
276 (41); on the soul, xxxiv, 
104 
Epicycles, defined, iii, 48 note 
Epicydes, and Themistocles, xii, 10 
Epidaurian Giant, xxvi, 128 
Epidaurus (see -^sculapius) 
Epidemics, as a check to increase, 

xi, 84 
Epigenes, with Socrates, ii, 21, 47 
Epigram, by Prior, xl, 408 ^^ 
Epilogue, by Browning, xlii, 1155 
Epimenides, iii, 69; viii, 173 note 

Epimetheus, fable of, iii, 42; Pan- 
dora and, iv, 175 

Epiphanius, leader of Arabic school, 
xxviii, 60; Milton on, iii, 213 

Epiphany, xlv, 578-9 

Epirot, Pyrrhus called the, iv, 85 

Epitaphs, Wordsworth on poetic, 
xxxix, 314 

Epithalamium, Spenser*s, xl, 238- 

50 
Epitomes, Shelley on, xxvii, 351 

Epixyes, and Themistocles, xii, 32 



226 



GENERAL INDEX 



Epoch, Taine on importance of, 

xxxix, 446, 450-1 
Epode, by Jonson, xl, 301-4 
Epuremei, Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 
^3^7, 37i» 378; religion of, 388 
Equability, is piety, xlv, 810 
Equality, among low races, xxix, 
245; ants pattern of, iv, 242; Ball, 
John, on, xxxv, 62 ; Burke on, 
xxiv, 185, 197; envy of, iii, 25; 
of fortune, 35; v, 92; of goods, 
Milton on, iv, 67; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 402-3, 425-6; Jefferson on, 
xliii, 160; Lowell on, xxviii, 483; 
Montaigne on, xxxii, 25; More 
on, xxxvi, 177, 178-9; natural, of 
men, v, 279; x, 22\ Pascal on, 
xlviii, 107 (299), 382-4; Paul, St., 
on, xlv, 537 (14); principle of, 
discovered by Plato, xxvii, 363; 
realized in aesthetics, xxxii, 312; 
of rights, v, 250-1; sedition bred 
hy, iii, 38; Spartan principle of, 
v, 252; of trades, x, 12 1-6 
Equanimity, Hindu doctrine of, xlv, 
866; Marcus Aurelius on the 
term, ii, 281 (8) 
Equestrian Order, of Rome, ix, 213 

note 2 
Equipage, demand for, x, 174-5 
Equity, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 426; Mo- 
hammed on, xlv, 1009^ 
Equivocation, Penn on, i, 353 (144) 
Erasistratus, xxxviii, 70, 93, 94 
Erasmus, on the English universi- 
ties, xxxv, 394-5; on folly, xxvii, 
?3; More on, xxxvi, 93; at Ox- 
ord, V, 433 
Eraso, secretary of Charles V, xv, 

Erastus, the disciple, xliv, 474 {22) 
Erato, reference to, xiii, 244 
Ercilla, Alonso de, Cervantes on, 

xiv, 57 
Ercoco, reference to, iv, 332 
Erechtheus, Athens the city of, viii, 

333; references to, 148; xxvi, 144 
Eric the Red, xliii, 5, 6, 8, 12, 13 
Ericetes, death of, xiii, 352 
Erichtho, Dante on, xx, 27 
Erichthonius, reference to, xiii, y2 
Erinnyes, reference to the, viii, 276 
Eriphyle, Homer on, xxii, 160; in 

the Mournful Fields, xiii, 226; 

slain by son, xx, 302 note 12, 194 
Erisichthon, Dante on, xx,^ 241 
Eristics, Socrates on the, ii, 96 
Ermine, hunting of^ the, xiv, 332-3; 

Smart on the, xli, 506 
Ernst, H. C, translator of Pasteur, 

xxxviii, 283 
Eros, and Anteros, xii, 113 note 3; 

xviii, 420; song to, viii, 310 
Eros, servant of Antony, xii, 395 
Erosion, Darwin on, xxix, 335-6; 

Geikie on, xxx, 356 (see also 

Denudation) 



Erotic Poetry, Shelley on, xxvii, 

359-60 
Erp, son of Gudrun, xlix, 376, 379, 

380, 444, 452-3, 456 
trpingham, at Agincourt, xl, 228 
Error, Augustine, St., on origin of 
vii, 61; Berkeley on, xxxvii, 242; 
Emerson on, v, 18; Euripides on, 
viii, 308-9; hill of, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 125; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 345; knowledge of, neces- 
sary^ to truth, iii, 212-13; Milton 
on, iv, 405; Pascal on sources of, 
xlviii, 37-8; Sophocles on correc- 
tion of, viii, 275 
Erskine, Thomas, Lord, Burns on, 

vi, 167, 269, 478 
Ertanax, the fish, xxxv, 192 
Erymanthus, and Hercules, xiii, 238 
Erynnis, references to the, xx, 38; 

xxii, 214 
Erysipelas, and puerperal fever, 
xxxviii, 249, 253 note, 255, 262, 
265, 266y 267 
Erythrabolos, city of, xxxiii, 54 
Erythraean Sea, Herodotus on, 
xxxiii, 8, 9-10; Milton on, iv, 17 
Esau, Augustine, St., on, vii, 193; 
Bunyan on, xv, 127, 132-33; Wool- 
man on, i, 311 
Eschilus (see ^schylus) 
Escobar, Pascal on, xlviii, 318 (915) 
Escovedo, Raleigh on, xxxix, 92-3 
Escremis, xlix, 129-30, 142 
Escurial,' Bacon on the, iii, 115 
Esdras, Pascal on, xlviii, 214-15; 

Raleigh on, xxxix, 105 
Esopus TO Maria, vi, 517-20 
Espanola, Drake at, xxxiii, 235 
Esquife, friend of Don Quixote, xiv, 

49 ^ 

Esquimaux, Darwin on the, xxix, 

246 
Essay on Man, Pope's, xl, 417-51; 

Essays, founded by Montaigne, 

xxxii, 3 
Essays, American, xxviii, 317-485 
Essays, Bacon's, iii, 7-149 
Essays, Emerson's, v, 5-321 
Essays, English, xxvii, xxviii 
Essays, French, German, etc., xxxii 
Essence, defined, ii, 70; knowledge 

of, 64-6 (see also Real Existence) 
Essex, Earl of, and Bacon, iii, 3; 

Emerson on, v, 191; Jonson on, 

xxvii, 60; A Passion, xl, 294 

Es-SlNDIBAD OF THE SeA, Xvi, 242- 

309 

Es-Sindibad, the Porter, xvi, 242-5, 

309 . . 

Establishment, misuse of word, 

xxvii, 258 
Estampes, M. d', governor of Brit* 

tany, xxxviii, 13, 14, 15 
Este, Azzo da, and Del Cassero, xx, 

165 note 5 



GENERAL INDEX 



227 



Este, Ippolito d*, Cardinal of Fer- 
rara, xxxi, 206 note 5, 210-11, 
260-1, 269-72, zTi, 279, 286-8, 290, 
294-5, 297, 306, 333-4» 349 
Este, Obizzo da, and Ghisola, xx, 
76 note 2; murder of, 53 note p 
Esteem, love of, in children, xxxvii, 
41-4; Pascal on, xlviii, 60 (148-9, 
i53)» 117 (333), 132 (400, 404); 
Penn on, i, 365 (313); for rank, 
Pascal on, xlviii, 386 
Esteem for Chi^oris, vi, 535 
Esther, reference to, xx, 215 
Estorause, King, xxxv, 223, 224 
Estorgan, in Song of Roland, xlix, 

130, 142 

Estouteville, Jean d*, xxxi, 292 note 

Estramarin, xlix, 99, 130, 142-3 

Estrella, in Life a Dream, with 

Astolfo, xxvi, 18-19; her claim to 

throne, 19-20; agrees to king's 

plan, 25-6; with Segismund, 39- 

40; chosen queen of Segismund, 

^7 

Estres, M. d', Pare on, xxxviii, 2(i^ 

45 
Etain, daughter of Eochaid, xlix, 

213-14 
Etain, daughter of Etar, xlix, 212- 

13 

Etampes, Madame d*, mistress of 
Francis I, xxxi, 295 note, 343 
note; Cellini and, 305, 306, 309- 
II, 313-14. 323» 336-7» 339-40.343- 
4» 348 

Etearchos, king of Ammonians, 
xxxiii, 19-20 

Eteocles, and Polynices, xx, 109 
note; viii, 243, 247-8, 249; sung 
by Statius, xx, 237 note 3 

Eteoneus, squire of Menelaus, xxii, 
48-9, 210 

Eternal Goodness, The, xlii, 1414- 
16 

Eternal Life, Kempis on desire of, 
vii, 328 

Eternity, Browne on, iii, 274-5; 
Burke on idea of, xxiv, 55; Hindu 
doctrine of, xlv, 806-7; i^i an 
hour, xli, 601 ; human life and, 
ii, 274 (32); ocean of, in Mirza, 
xxvii, 78, 80-1 ; Pascal on, xlviii, 
30; shadows of, xl, 357-8; time 
and, iv, 40-1 

Eterscel, King, xlix, 213, 214 

Ethan the Ezrahite, Maschil of, xliv, 
259-62 

Ethelred, navy of, xxxv, 380 

Ethelwald, at Winborne, v, 367 

Ether, luminiferous, Kelvin on, xxx, 
268, 276-9, 285-6 

Ethics,^ common rational basis of, 
xxxii, 323-35; empirical and meta- 
physical bases of, 337-76; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 377; Hume on stand- 
ard of, xxvii, 216-17; Kant on 
science of, xxxii, 317, .-^iS; Mill 



on Christian, xxv, 252-5; need of 
metaphysic of, xxxii, 318-21; need 
of philosophical basis, 335-6; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 24 (67); 318 (912); 
Pope on study of, xl, 417 (see 
also Morals) 

Ethiopia, Herodotus on, xxxiii, 15, 
18-19 

Ethiopia Saluting the Coi^ors, 
xlii, 1490-1 

Ethiopian Eunuch, xliv, 447 (^21' 
40) 

Ethiopians, circumcision among, 
xxxiii, 51; Homer on the, xxii, 
9-10 

Ethnology, importance of, xxviii, 
238-43 ; a physical science, 244 
(see also Race) 

Etna (see ^tna) 

Eton College, On a Distant 
Prospect of, xl, 459 

Ettrick Forest, men of, at Flodden, 
xli, 494 note 

Etymology, Johnson on English, 
xxxix, 195-7 

Eu, Comte d*, at Dreux, xxxviii, 
51 

Eu, Earl of, in English wars, xxxv, 
II, 51 

Eucharist, Calvin on the, xxxix, 39- 
40, 54; institution of the, xliv, 
417 (19-20); Kempis on the, vii, 
349-79; Luther on the, xxxvi, 
336-7; Newman on doctrine of 
the, xxviii, 38; Pascal on the, 
xlviii, 81 (224), 222 (654), 225 
(666), 22-] (670), 278 (789), 306- 
7, 340-1, 354-5; St. Paul on the, 
xlv, 516 (23-9) 

Euchidas, the Plataean, xii, 102 

Euclia, the goddess, xii, 102 

Euclid, the mathematician, Huxley 
on, xxviii, 22^; in Limbo, xx, 20; 
on unity, xlviii, 441-2 

Euclid, friend of Socrates, ii, 47 

Eudaemon, name of, xii, 162 note 

Eudamidas, will of, xxxii, 83, 84 

Eudes, Mayor of Palace, xxxix, 87 

Euergetes, name of, xii, 162 note 

EuGANEAN Hills, Lines Written 
Among, xli, 858-64 

Eugene, Princv. xli, 751; and the 
English merchants, xxxiv, 93-4; 
story of, xxvii, 109 

Eugenio, the goatherd, in Don 
Quixote, xiv, 525-32 

Eugenius, Calvin on, xxxix, 45, 46 

Eulogies, fancy and judgement in, 
xxxiv, 364 

Eulogistic Fallacies, xxvii, 258 9 

Eumaeus, swineherd of Odysseus, 
xxii, 193-207, 216-21, 224-8, 238, 
243-6, 247, 251-4, 300-1, 304-5f 
310-20; Cowley on, xxvii, 72 

Eumedes, death of, xiii, 4D7 



228 



GENERAL INDEX 



Eumenides, Hugo on the, xxxix, 
366; name of, xxvii, 341 

Eumenius, death of, xiii, 385 

Eumolpus, Pliny on, ix, 420-1 

Eunapius, at Athens, xxviii, 54-5 

Eunoe, river, xx, 264 

Eunomus, and Demosthenes, xii, 
201-2 

Eunuchs, envy of, iii, 24; king's 
favor for, 113 ^ 

Euodius, conversion of, vii, 154; at 
funeral of Monnica, 162 

Eupeithes, father of Antinous, xxii, 
342; death of, 345 

Euphelia, and Cloe, xl, 407-8 

Euphrantides, the Prophet, xii, 18 

Euphrasia, in Philaster (see Bel- 
lario) 

Euphrates, the philosopher, ix, 204- 
5; quoted, ii, 172 (154) 

Euphrosyne, reference to, iv, 31 

Eupolis, and Alcibiades, ix, 154; on 
Pericles, ix, 217 note; xii, 39 

Euripides, and -<Eschylus, xxxix, 
450; Aristophanes on, viii,4i8, 421 ; 
Bacch-« of, 349-415; defeats of, 
xxxix, 334; dispute with ^schylus 
in The Frogs, viii, 441-465; do- 
mestic relations of, 452; on hid- 
ing wickedness, xxxix, 7S> Hip- 
POLYTUS of, viii, 287-348; Hugo 
on, xxxix, 36s; Hugo on Sup- 
pliants of, 359; Johnson on, 220; 
on libertv of speech, iii, 193 ; life 
and works, viii, 286; in Limbo, 
XX, 238 note 6; Milton on, iv, 
417; Shelley on, xxvii, 354; 
Sophocles, compared with, 196; 
on the Spartans, iii, 204; verses 
of, in Syracuse, xxvii, 41 

Euripus, the flux of, xxxviii, 79, 
103, 104 

Europa, reference to, xx, 402 

Europe, American policy toward, 
xliii, 297-8; "better fifty years of," 
xlii, 1019; civilization of, cause 
of, xxxiv, 210; eastern, Freeman 
on, xxviii, 272-81; growth of con- 
tinent of, XXX, 357-67; races of, 
xxviii, 266-81 

Europeans, contact of, with native 
races, xxix, 459-60 

Eurus, reference to, 'xiii, 79 

Euryades, death of, xxii, 314 

Euryalus, and Nisus, xiii, 192-3, 
303-312 

Euryalus, in the Odyssey, xxii, 107, 
108, 114-15 

Eurybates, henchman of Ulysses, 
xxii, 273-4 

Eurybiades, Admiral of Greeks, xii, 
11; given rewards for valor, 21; 
at Salamis, 88-9; Themistocles 
and, ie-i6 

Eurycleia, nurse of Telemachus, 



xxii, 20-1, 31-2, 67-8, 239, 276-80, 

317-18, 321-3 
Eurycles, and Antony, xii, 388 
Eurydamas, in the Odyssey, xxii, 

263, 315 
Eurydice, wife of Creon, iiii, 280-1, 

283-4 
Eurydice, wife of Nestor, xxii, 46 
Eurydice, wife of Orpheus, iv, 35 
Eurylochus, in Circe's isle, xxii, 

141-3, 147-8; at island of Helios, 

176, 177-8 
Eurymachus, suitor of Penelope, 

xxii, 19-20, 27, 64, 208, 222, 261- 

3; death of, 308-9; Melantho and, 

263; Telemachus and, 235-6; Theo- 

clymenus and, 293-4; Ulysses and, 

264-6, 300-4 
Eurymanthus, death of, xiii, 321 
Eurymedon, in the Odyssey, xxii, 

95 
Eurymedusa, Homer on, xxii, 94 
Eurynome, in Odyssey, xxii, 251, 

259-60, 270, 309, 325 
Eurynomus, wooer of Penelope, 

xxii, 22, 313 
Eurypilus, Dante on, xx, 86 
Euryptolemus, and Pericles, xii, 43 
Eurypylus, in -<Eneid, xiii, 107, 165 
Eurystheus, Epictetus on, ii, 143 

(71) 
Eurythmus, freedman of Trajan, i^ 

309-10 
Eurytion, in ^neid, xiii, 199, 200 
Eurytion, the Centaur, xxii, 303 
Eurytus, Homer on, xxii, 110 
Eusebius, at Athens, xxviii, 62; on 
the Creation, xxxix, 107; Milton 
on, iii, 213^ 
Eustochium, vision of, iii, 210 
Euterpe, mother of Themistocles, 

xii, 5 
Eutyches, on Christ, xx, 308 note 5 
Eutychus, and Octavius, xii, 386 

note 
Eutychus, and St. Paul, xliv, 476 

(9-12) 
Evadne, and Laodamia, xiii, 226 
Evandale, Lord, character of, v, 126 
Evander, and ^neas, xiii, 276-84, 
287-91; Cowley on Virgil's, xxvii, 
72-3; in Italy, xiii, 274; lament 
over Pallas, 366-7 
Evangeline, Longfellow's, xlii, 1353- 
1413; its debt to Hermann and 
Dorothea, xix, 334 
Evangeline, daughter of Benedict 
Belief ontaine, xlii, 1356-7; her 
suitors, 1358; her love for 
Gabriel, 1358-60; her heifer, 136 1; 
on evening of betrothal, 1362-3, 
1365, 1368, 1369-70; at feast of 
betrothal, 1371, 1372; waiting for 
father's return, 1375-6; on day 
of expulsion, 1378, 1380, 1382J 



GENERAL INDEX 



229 



in exile, 1384; her search for 
Gabriel, 1385-1408; in Philadel- 
phia, as Sister of Mercy, 1408-9; 
in the plague, 1410-11; with 
Gabriel at last, 1411-13 
Evangelist, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, i4-i5» 24-9. 91-3 
Evangelus, servant of Pericles, xii, 
56 

Evans, mate of the "Alert," xxiii, 
422 

Eve, Adam accuses, iv, 290-3; 
Adam, first meeting with, 168-9, 
258-60; Adam, her dependence on, 
173-4; Adam, evening meal with, 
16^-6; Adam denounces, 316-17; 
Aaam*s love besought by, 317-18; 
Adam tempted by, 284-90; ap- 
pearance of, at the feast, 193, 
194-5; Bagehot on Milton's, xxviii, 
198, 209-10; beauty of, v, 315; 
Browne on creation of, iii, 286; 
Bunyan on apple of, xv, 240 ; crea- 
tion of, iv, 258-9; Dante on, in 
Paradise, xx, 420 note i ; death 
suggested by, iv, 319; departs 
from Eden, 361-2; description of, 
164-5; dream of, 184-6; feast 
prepared by, for Raphael, 191-2; 
hides from God, 297; judged, 298- 
9; labors of, 189; lamentation of, 
at loss of Eden, 329; prayer of, 
187-9; temptation of, 276-83; tree 
of, XXXV, 196-7, 198 

Eve of St. Agnes, xli, 907-17 

Evelake, King, xxxv, 124, 125, 144- 
5, 159, 219, 222 

Evelyn Hope, xlii, 1120 

Evening, Goethe on influence of, 
xix,^ 48, 49; Milton's description 
of, iv, 172 

Evening, To, xli, 491-3 

Evening Star, To the, xli, 790, 
795-6 

Events, cause of, Whewell on, xi, 
1; Emerson on origin of, v, 138; 
relation of, to causes, xxxvii, 
373-7; tests of worth of, v, 195-6 

Evenus, the Parian, ii, 6, 48, 49 
• Everett, Edward, oration at Gettys- 
burg, xliii, 441 note 

Evil, Augustine, St., on, vii, 40, 
60-1, 78, 105-7, 1 1 5-16; Buddha 
on, xlv, 677; Carlyle on, xxv, 
358; Dante on cause of, xx, 211- 
12; Emerson on, v, 28; Epictetus 
on, ii, 174 (162); Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 351-2; Hume on problem 
of, xxxvii, 389-91, 421-2; knowl- 
edge of, Mrs. Herbert on, xv, 
380; knowledge of, Milton on, iii, 
212-13; iv, 281; last infirmity of, 
xviii, 412; made by thought, xlvi, 
123; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 203 
(11), 205 (17), 215 (7, 8), 220 
(39)» 234 (1). 271 (13), 275 (35); 



Omar Khasryam on, xli, 984-5; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 133 (408), 337; 
Pope on, xl, 419-25, 444; Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 267-9, 286-7; seeds 
of, fable on, xvii, 15; Socrates 
on, ii, 38* speaking and believing, 
vii, 217 (1); Woolman on, i, 266 

Evils, as benefactors, v, 103; choose 
less of two, vii, 284; Goethe on 
imagined, xix, 31; Milton on im- 
agined, iv, 56 

Evolution, antiquity of idea of, xi, 
6; Descartes on growth by, xxxiv, 
12-13; generally accepted, xi, 257; 
growth of idea of, ii, 9-24 

Evolution, Geographical, xxx, 342- 

^67. 

Ewaipanoma, the, xxxiii, 372-3 

Ewell, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

^ 365, 366, 378-9, 385-6 

Exaggeration, Emerson on, v, 242 

Example, best precept, xvii, 30; 
Chaucer on, and precept, xl, 25; 
Confucius on guiding by, xliv, 7 
(3); education by, ix, 336; Epic- 
tetus on, and precept, ii, 177 
(175); Epictetus on teaching by, 
155 (102); Locke on teaching by, 
xxxvii, 59, 62, 68-9, 73-4; Spenser 
on teaching by, xxxix, 65 

Examples, Bacon on use of, xxxix, 
147; great men^ as, xlviii, 45 
(103); Machiavelli on high, xxxvi, 
20; Pascal on effect of, xlviii, 
49 (117); Raleigh on historical, 
xxxix, 73-5, 93; true and feigned, 
xxvii, 23; use of good and evil, 
iii, 31 

Excalibur, sword of Arthur, xlii, 
1020-3 

Excess, causes defect, v. 92; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 35 (15); Epic- 
tetus on, ii, 183 (12); Pascal on, 
xlviii, 29 

Exchange, advantages of, x, 22-3; 
ancient media of, 30-1 ; effects of 
high orice of, 330; medium of 
(see ^ Money) ; power of, limits 
division of labor, 24; i)roi)ensity 
to, 19-20; rates of, as criterion of 
balance of trade, 372-6; rates of 
international, 329-30 

Excise Duties, vexation of, x, 564 

Excises under U. S. Constitution, 
xliii, 196 (8) 

Excisemen, Kirk and State, vi, 
489-90 

Excitement, man's sphere, xix, 68; 
Pascal on quest of^ xlviii, 54, 55; 
Wordsworth on thirst for, xxxix, 
287-8 

Exclusionists, Emerson on, v, 98-9 

Excommunication, Chaucer on, xl, 
29 note 330; Dante on, xx, 365 
note 10; Luther on, xxxvi, 289, 
305. 306, 323; in Utopia, 244 

Excuses, Confucius on, xliv, 56 (1); 



230 



GENERAL INDEX 



fable^ of, xvii, 9-10; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 122, 126; Marcus Aure- 
lius on, ii, 195 (12); Pascal on, 
xlviii, 22 (58); Penn on, i, 354 
(150);^ Thackeray on, xxviii, 9; 
Tzu-iisia on, xliv, 66 (8) 
Executive Power (U. S.)» xliii, 199- 

202 
Exercise, Burke on necessity of, 

xxiv, 1 13-14; Cicero on, ix, 58 
Existence, annihilation of, heresy of, 
xlv, 672-3, 681; definition of, im- 
possible, xlviii, 432; Hindu doc- 
trine of persistent, xlv, 806-7; 
persistent, heresy of, 672-3, 680; 
struggle for (see Struggle for 
Existence) (see also Real Exist- 
ence) 
Exorcism, Pascal on, xlviii, 280 

(820) ^ 
Expectation, Manzoni on, xxi, 664; 

never satisfied, v, 243-4 
Expediency, St. Paul on, xlv, 508 

(12), 515 (23) 
Expenditure (see Consumption) 
Expense, Bacon on, iii, 75-6; educa- 
tional, xxxvii, 74-5; immediate and 
durable, x, 287-90 
Experience, in animals, xxxvii, 392- 
3; Bacon on analysis of, xxxix, 
140, 143-6; Bunyan on, xv, 297; 
Descartes on value of, xxxiv, 10- 
II, 13; education by actual, v, 
12-15; faith superior to, 137; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 326, 333; Hume 
on, xxxvii, 317-20, 326-30, 375, 
397, 424; Hume on conclusions 
from, 330-6, 338, 339-41. 349; 
mother of sciences, xiy, 175; ne- 
cessity of moral, xxviii, 178; of 
others, i, 74; Raleigh on, xxxix, 
105; reason and, 134; xxxvii, 340 
note;^ teacher of wisdom, best, 
xxviii, 351; thought and, Thoreau 
on, 411 
Experience, the shepherd, in Pil- 
grim's Progress, xv, 125-8 
Experiment, Bacon on necessity of, 
xxxix, 131, 134, 140, 141-2; Des- 
cartes on truth by, xxxiv, 12-13, 
51 
Explanations, actions the only true, 

V, 198-9 

Expletives, Johnson on, xxxix, 201 

Exports, and Exportation, bounties 

on, X, 392-406, 546; drawbacks on, 

389-91; encouragement of, 346-7; 

of materials, discouraged, 424, 

429-42; taxes on, from U. S., 

xliii, 198 (5) 

Ex Post Facto Laws, xliii, 198 (3, 

10) 
Expression, Locke on correct, 
xxxvii, 1 7 1-4; means of, other 
than words, xxviii, 290-1 ; nec- 
essary to beauty, V, 317, 318 
Extemporaneous Effusion, vi, 375 



Extempore in Court of Session, 
vi, 269 

Extempore Speaking, Locke on, 
xxxvii, 158-9 

Extempore Writing, Carlyle on, xxv, 
460-4 

Extension, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 220- 
2, 224-6, 230-1, 282; Hume on 
idea of, 435-6; infinite divisibility 
of, xlviii, 437-44; as source of 
grandeur, xxiv, 63-70 

External Circumstances, independ- 
ence of (see Independence of C.) 

Extinction of Species, Darwin on, 
xi,_ 120-1, 130-1, 140-1, 368-73; 
xxix, 189-90; Lyell on causes of, 
xxxviii, 425, 427 

Extortioners, St. Paul on, xlv, 507 
(11), 508 (10) 

Extradition, ^ between ^ U. S. and 
Great Britain, xliii, 300, 307; 
under Confederation, 169 

Extravagance, economically consid- 
ered, X, 279-81; public, 282-3 

Extremes, Moliere on man's tend- 
ency to, xxvi, 203; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 29; Plutarch on, xii, 153 

Eye, beauty of the, xxiv, 10 1; de- 
velopment of the, xi, 190-4; Helm- 
holtz on the, 214; interpreter of 
the heart, xlviii, 421 

Eyes, temptation of, St. Augustine 
on, vii, 196-7 

Eylimi, King, xlix, 297, 298, 299 

Eyre, Gov., prosecution of, xxv, 
189-90 

Eyre, Margery, in Shoemaker's 
Holiday, xlvii, 451-3, 458-61, 466- 
9, 475-82, 498-9, 508 

Eyre, Simon, in Shoemaker's Holi- 
day, character of, xlvii, 445; king 
and, 509-10, 513-14; Leadenhall 
built by, 513 note; Lord Mayor 
and, 473-4, 479-82; Mayor, 491, 
499, 506-9; Ralph and, 451-4; 
Rowland and, 460-1, 498, 504; 
sheriff, 478-9; ship bought by, 
467-9; at his shop, 457-61, 466-7 

Eyre's Sound, glaciers in, xxix, 262 

Eystein, and Sigurd, v, 357 

Eyvind, and Olaf, v, 286 ^^ 

Ezekiel, and yEschylus, viii, 4; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 312 (886); vision 
of, iv, loi 

Ezra, and the ass, xvi, 123 note 

Ezzelin, reference to, xviii, 300 

Fa, Jacques de la, xxxi, 323 note r 

Fabatus, letters to, ix, 260, 308, 
318 

Faber, Frederick William, Hymn 
BY, xlv, 584 

Fabian, in Polyeucte, xxvi, 80-3, 
109 

Fabius Maximus, Cicero on, ix, 48- 
50; Pericles and, compared, xii, 
38; Scipio and, xxxvi, 59; Virgil 
on, xiii, 240 



GENERAL INDEX 



231 



Fabi<es and Folk-Lore, xvH 
Fables, Preface to, Dryden's, xxxix, 

160-83 
Fables, law of compensation in, v, 

96; remarks on, xvii, 2, 3 
Fabricius, Gaius, Cicero on, ix, 18; 

Dante on, xx, 22^% on Epicurus, 

ix, 61; Milton on, iv, 387; More 

on, xxxvi, 172; Virgil on, xiii, 

240 
Fabricius, Hieronymus, Harvey on, 

xxxviii, 80; on lungs, 68, 75; on 

veins, 124 
Face, Burke on beauty of the, xxiv, 

loi; character in the, iii, 326; 

expressions of the, xxviii, 290-1; 

ideal, rare, v, 316-17; sign of 

mind, as, Shakespeare on, xlvi, 

313 
Face, in The Alchemist, con- 
federates betrayed by, xlvii, 627- 

9; Dame Pliant and, 566-7, 591-2, 

593-4> 598-602; Dapper v^^ith, 528- 

35. 576-7, 581-5, 623-4, 625; 

Drugger and, 536-9, 564-6, 577-8i; 

as Jeremy the servant, 617-22; 

Lovewit and, 622-3; Mammon 

and, 541, 544-6, 548, 549-5i» 554- 

9. 585-6, 587-8, 591, 603-4, 605-6; 

Subtle and, 521-8, 594-5; Surly 

and, 557, 559, 574-6, 595-8, 608- 

10 
Facing-both-ways, Mr., in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 104 
Fact, Hume on matters of, xxxvii, 

324-36, 339-42, 349, 350, 439. 443-4 
Faction, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

129-131 
Factions, Bacon on, iii, 39, 41 ; 

Franklin on, i, 93 
Facts, Burns on, vi, 218; Emerson 

on, V, 191; worship of, 195-6 
Fadl-ed-Din, the vizier, xvi, 203-10 
Faerie Queene, Lear, story of, in, 

xlvi, 202; Shelley on, xxvii, 366 
Faerie Queene, Prefatory Letter 

ON, xxxix, 64-8 
Fafnir, xlix, 303, 304, 306, 312-15; 

the heart of, 316-17 
Failure, M. Aurelius on, ii, 227 

(9), 244 (50) 
Faint-Heart, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 130, 134-5 
Fainting, Harvey on cause of, 

xxxviii, 119 
Fair Annet, Lord Thomas and, xl, 

61-5 
Fair Ines, xli, 930-1 ; Poe on, 

xxviii, 397-8 
Fair Is My Love, xl, 255 
Fair YbuNO Lady, Song to a, xl, 

397-8 
Fairest Maid on Devon Banks, vi, 

592 
Fairfax, motto of house of, v, 388 



Fairfax, Edward, Dryden on, xxxix, 
i6i, 171 

Fairfax, Lord General, at Siege 
OF Colchester, iv, 84 

Fairies, The, by Allingham, xlii, 
II 62 

Fairness, and fitness, Augustine, St., 
^ on, vii, 60 

Fair-speech, Lord, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 104 

Fair-speech, town of, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 103-4 

Faith, American lack of, v, 57; Ar- 
nold on decline of, xlii, 1184; 
Augustine, St., on, in Scripture, 
vii, 87-8; Bacon on, and suspi- 
cion, iii, 87; Blake on children's, 
xli, 603; Browne on, iii, 2^2 (9, 
10), 284, 323; Bunyan's allegory 
of, XV, 34-5; Calvin on, xxxix, 
ZZ^ 53; Carlyle on, xxv, 358; 
Dante on, xx, 389-90; Dante's 
allegory of, 268 note 11; Dante's 
star of, 179 note 9; decline of, 
modern, v, 38, 287; xxv, 358-61; 
Emerson on, v, 137-8, 152, 284, 
292, 308; Hindu doctrine of, xlv, 
857, 859, ^TZ, 875; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 361-2; Hume on Christian, 
xxxvii, 415; Isidore on, xxxix, n6; 
Jesus on, xliv, 405 (5-6); justifi- 
cation by, xxxvi, 364-77, 378, 381- 
2, 382-3, 386-8, 395; justification 
by, Hindu idea of, xlv, 809; 
Kempis on necessity of, vii, 378 
(2), 379 (5); Longfellow on, xlii, 
1407; Luther on Christian, xxxvi, 
362, 369-75, 391-2; Milton on, iii, 
228-31; iv, 52, 356; More on, 
under difficulties, xxxvi, 105; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 92 (248), 97 
(265-7), 99 (278-9), 138, 167 
(504), 171 (516), 306; Paul, St., 
on, xlv, 519 (2, 13); Penn on, i, 
376 (454); Pope on modes of, xl, 
441; Rousseau on, articles of, 
xxxiv, 298; Tzu-chang on, xliv, 
65 (2) ; Voltaire on, and reason, 
xxxiv, 109; Whitman on, xxxix, 
414; Wordsworth on, 330-1; of 
youth, xix, 34-5 (see also Fidelity, 
Promises) 

Faithful, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 
59-60, 71, 73-89, 94-102 

Faithful John, tale of, xvn, 
61-8 

Faithfulness, Confucius on, xliv, 6 
(8), 14 (15), 30 (24), 40 (10), 
47 (8), 53 (5); Jesus on, 403 
(10-12) 

Falada, the speaking horse, xvii, 
184-8 

Falconer, Hugh, on crocodiles, xi, 
364-5; on elephants, 370; on 
periods of modification, 351 



232 



GENERAL INDEX 



Falconer, the Jesuit, xxix, 119 

Falkland Islands, climate and pro- 
ductions of, xxix, 258-9; Darwin 
on, 58, 202-18; peat in, 304; 
tameness of birds in, 423 

Falkland, Lord, on ceremony, v, 
210; Pope on, xl, 444 

Fall of Fyers, Lines on the, vi, 
296 

Fall of the Leaf, vi, ^33 

Fallacies of Anti-Reformers, 
Smith's, xxvii, 237-65 

Fallen Angels, in Paradise Lost, 
muster of, iv, 103-105; names on 
earth of, 99; number of, 98-99; 
in Pandemonium, 109-10; pastimes 
of the, 124-6; punishment of, 
yearly, 307.9; rebellion of, 201, 
209, 212-29 

Falling Bodies, law of, xxx, 18-20 

Falloppio, system of, xxxviii, 408 

Falsaron, xlix, 128, 139-40 

False accusers, branded in Rome, 
ix, 310 note 8 

False Opinions, injuriousness of, ii, 
245 (57) 

False Prosecutions, in Massachu- 
setts, xliii, 76 (37) 

False Witness, punished by death, 
xliii, 85 (11) 

Falsehood, Bacon on, iii, 7, 8, 134; 
Dante places, in Hell, xx, 47; 
Emerson on, v, 27, 104; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 339; Kant on, xxxii, 
33^-3» 350, 353» 37-2; Locke on 
early training in, xxxvii, 31; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 267 (i); 
Montaigne on, iii, 9; Penn on, i, 
353. (144); semblance of, to be 
avoided, xx, 70-1; Spanish prov- 
erb on, iii, 20; Whitman on, 
xxxix, 425 

Fame. Augustine, St., on. vii, 59; 
Bacon on, iii, 38, 132; Burns on, 
vi, 273, 325; Byron on, xli, 810; 
Carlyle on, xxv, 436; Confucius 
on, xliv, 5 (i), 6 (16), 13 (14), 
41 (20), 50 (32); Dante on, xx, 
101, .ipi-2, 311 note 25; death 
and, iii, 11; Diogenes on, ii, 180 
(187); Epictetus on, 131 (43); 
Huxley on, xxviii, 217; '^infirmity 
of noble minds,** last, iv, 76; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 203 (12), 
205 (17), 210 (10), 214 (3), 216 
(19), 220 (33, 35), 237 (16, 18), 
244 (51), 246 (6), 250 (34), 263 
(44) ; Milton on, iv, 76, 340, 389- 
91; Pascal on love of, xlviii, 60 
(148), 61 (153, 158); Pliny on, 
ix, 305, 351; Pope on, xl, 447, 
448; results of desire for, xxxiv, 
386; Seneca on, xxxix, 70; Vir- 
gil's figure of, xiii, 162-3; Virgil's 
figure of, Burke on, xxiv, 57 



Fame, Essay on, Bacon's, iii, 147-0 
Familiarity, Bacon on, iii, 131-2; 
breeds contempt, xvii, 24; defeats 
dignity, xii, 43 j Emerson on, v, 
217; in friendship, 119-20; Kempis 
on, vii, 220; Locke on, of chil- 
dren, xxxvii, 85-8; Marcus Aure- 
lius on. ii, 221 (44), 245 (i), 257 
(6); Penn on, i, 351 (119); 
Shakespeare on, xlvi, 102; wonder 
destroyed by, xlviii, 40 (90) 
Familiars, denned, xlvii, 729 
Family, Feast of, in New Atlantis, 
iii, 172-6; founders of a, indul- 
gent, 21, 37; origin of the, xxxiv, 
206; Taine on the, xxxix, 454; 
in Utopia, xxxvi, 194, 195 
Famine, Woolman on, as a judg- 
ment, i, 246 
Fan Ch'ih, disciple of Confucius, 
xliv, 7 (5), 20 (20), 41 (21, 22), 
43 (4), 45 (19) 
Fanaticism, Burke on, xxiv, 301 
Fancy, feeling and, xlviii, 98 (274- 
5); imagination and, xxxix, 316, 
322-5; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 325, 
363-5; Milton on, iv, 186; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 39 (86, 87); Words- 
worth on, xxxix, 316-17, 322-S 
(see also Imagination) 
Fancy, by Shakespeare, xlj 268 
Fancy, The Realm of, xli, 894-6 
Fannia, mother-in-law of Helvidius, 

ix, 355, 358 
Fannia, wife of Helvidius, ix, 323- 

324 
Fannius, contemporary of Pliny, ix, 

276-7 
Fannius, Gaius, in Cicero's essay on 

Friendship, ix, 8-9 
Fano, Ludovico da, xxxi, loi note 

5, 169, 173 

Faraday, Michael, Chemical His- 
tory of a Candle, xxx, 80-178: 
Forces of Matter, 5-88; life and 
work of, 3-4; on regelation of 
ice, 244, 254, 256 

Fare Thee Well, by Byron, xli, 
819-21 

Farewell, The, by Burns, vi, 225- 

6, 234-5 

Farewell, Love s, xl, 232 
Farewell, Rewards, and Fairies, 

xl, 323-4 
Farewell Thou Stream, vi, 543 
Farewell to Eliza, vi, 228 
Farewell to the World, xl, 299 
Farfarello, the demon, xx, 90, 93 
Farinata degli Uberti, Dante on, xx, 

42-5 
Farmer, In the Character of a 

Ruined, vi, 22-3 
Farmers, in agricultural system, x, 
448-9, 461-2; capital of, 225-6; in- 
dolence of, reason for, 14; mon- 
opoly unknown among, 358; 



GENERAL INDEX 



233 



pleasures of, ix, 64-7; studies for, 
xxviN, 339 

Farming (see Agriculture) 

Farnese, Alessandro, xxxi, yy note, 
y^y 260 note (see also Paul III) 

Farnese, Pier Luigi, xxxi, 153 note 
2, 354 note 2; Cellini and, 155, 
211-12, 216, 235-6, 256, 267 note 
ii> 354-5; prevision of his mur- 
der, 262, 267 note 8; wife of, 242 
note 

Farrel, Capt., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

393-4> 409 

Farrer, Nicholas, xv, 415-17; George 
Herbert and, 392, 414, 418, 419- 
20; letter from Herbert to, 425-6 

Farrington, Abraham, i, 187, 192 

Fashion, Channing on, xxviii, 328; 
classes of, v, 212-14, 218-21; Em- 
erson on, 209, 212, 220, 226-7; 
Goldsmith on pleasures of, xli, 
528 

Fastidiousness, in love, xlviii, 421- 
2; Penn on, i, 402 (135-46) 

Fasts, Calvin on, xxxix, 40; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 325 

Fatalism (see Necessity) 

Fata Morgana, references to, xvii, 
291; xlii, 1402 

Fate, Academics, the, on, xxxix, 
114; Calderon on, xxvi, 66; 
Chaucer on, xl, a6, 48; fable on, 
xvii, 38-9; Heroaotus's belief in, 
xxxiii, 4; irremovable, by pres- 
cience, xiii, 308; lines on, v, 283; 
Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 83-4; Mar- 
cus Aurelius on, ii, 201 (3), 215 
(6, 9), 218 (26), 226 (8), 256 
(75), 279 (5); Omar Khayyam 
on, xli, 982-3; ordained of old, 
viii, 90; superior to gods, 41; un- 
avoidable rather than unexpected, 
xii, ^26 (see also Necessity) 

Fates, the, iv, 44*5; xiii, 181; 
-^schylus on the, viii, 152; Do 
Quincey on the, xxvii, 336; guides 
of necessity, viii, 174; of Norse 
mythology, xlix, 291 note (see 
also Destinies) 

Father, loss of a, Plutarch on, xii, 
152 

Father Abraham's^ Sermon, i, 3, 96 

Fathers, honored in New Atlantis, 
iii, 174; tyrannical, Shelley on, 
xviii, 301 (see also Parents) 

Fathers of the Church, Calvin on, 
xxxix, 37-41; Milton on, iv, 213 

Fatimeh, in story of Ala-ed-Din, xvi, 

^436-8 

Fattore, II, xxxi, 35 note 3, 40, 57 

Faucon, Capt., xxiii, 169, 171, 195; 
(in 1859), 404; in Boston, 421-2 

Faulkner, F., translator of Pasteur, 
xxxviii, 283 

Fault-finding (see Censoriousness) 

Faults, compensation for, v, 102; 

^ Confucius on, xliv, 13 (7), 54 



(29); man's dislike to hear own, 
ii, 141 (67); Pascal on hiding of, 
xlviii, 43-4; Penn on, i, 351 (123); 
pointing out of, xlviii, 174 (535); 
Shakespeare on single, xlvi, 105; 
uncorrected, become habits, ii, 144 
(75) 

Faults, geological, xi, 338 

Fauns, referred to, iv, 75 

Faunus, Latin god, xiii, 422; father 
of Latinus, 245 

Faust, Doctor, historical character, 
original of Goethe's tragedy, xix, 
4 

Faust, in Goethe's Faust, at Auer- 
bach's wine-cellar, xix, 84, 91; in 
witches' kitchen, 95-7; vision of 
Helena, 99-100; restored to youth, 
103-6; before Margaret's door, 
153-4; kills Valentine, 156; com- 
pact with Mephistopheles, 60-70; 
curse of, 62-3; starts out, 78-9; 
dissatisfied, calls on spirits, 21-7; 
interrupted by Wagner, 27-29; 
first sight of Margaret, 107; de- 
mands her from Mephistopheles, 
107-10; in Margaret's chamber, 
1 10-13; his corruption undertaken 
by Mephistopheles, 18-19; in de- 
spair, attempts suicide, 30-5; in 
forest cavern, 136-9; urged by 
Mephistopheles to return to Mar- 
garet, 139-41; in study, Mephis- 
topheles appears, 48-60; learns ap- 
pointment with Margaret, 125-8; 
with Margaret in garden, 128-34; 
in summer-house, 135-6; learns 
casket given to church, 1 16-17; 
on Walpurgis'-Night, 161-74; vis- 
ion of Margaret, 175; learns her 
imprisonment and determines to 
free her, 184-6; on way to prison, 
186-7; in dungeon with Margaret, 
187-95; with Margaret, on his 
religion, 143-S; on Mephistopheles, 
146; plans secret meeting with 
Margaret, 147-8; with Mephis- 
topheles, 148-9; with Wagner be- 
fore the gate, 40-5; his aspira- 
tions, 46; with the dog, 47-8 

Faust, tragedy of, Goethe's, xix, 7- 
195; remarks on, 4-6 

Faustina, wife of Marcus Aurelius, 
ii, 200 (17) 

Faustus, in Marlowe's Faustus, and 
the horse-courser, xix, 232-4; at 
court of Vanholt, 235; recalls 
spirit of Helen of Troy, 236; 
birth, education, and practise ot 
magic, 199-200; dissatisfied with 
human learning, takes to magic, 
200-203; half repents, 217-18; dis- 
cusses astronomy, 218-19; calls on 
Christ, 219; with Lucifer, 220; 
with Seven Sins, 220-2; promised 



234 



GENERAL INDEX 



to see Hell, 222; studies astrono- 
my on Olympus, 222; remarks on 
dying utterance of, 198; remarks 
on speech to Helen, 198; re- 
nounces God for Belzebub, 212; 
compact with Mephistophilis, 213- 
17; travels of, 222-3; in Rome, at 
Pope's feast, 223-5 ; returns home, 
his fame, 226; at Emperor's court, 
22g-Z2\ urged to repent, 2^7 \ re- 
news compact, 238; wins Helen 
of Troy for paramour, 238-9; last 
hours, 239-42; taken by devils, 
242-3; with Valdes and Cornelius, 
203-5 ; conjures Mephistophilis, 
206-9 

Faustus, Dr., Marlowe's, xix, 199- 
243; remarks on, 198 

Faustus, Bishop of Manichees, vii, 
66; St. Augustine on, 70-73 

Favonius, iv, 87; ix, 99; Caesar, 
opposed by, xii, 293 ; Pompey and, 
303-4, 310 

Favorinus, ii, 179 note 

Favorite Cat, On a, xl, 473-5 

Favorites, Marlowe on, xlvi, 25; 
royal, Bacon on, iii, 70, 99 

Favors, apt to be repeated, i, 102; 
Cicero on, ix, 33; claim returns, 
xix, 126; Emerson on receiving, 
v, 100; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 386; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 194 (8); 
Mohammed on, xlv, 890, 894; 
Socrates on, ii, 297 (25); Wool- 
man on, i, 255 

Favour, On Receiving a, vi, 375 

Fawcett, Mr., xxv, 191 

Fawkener, Everard, postmaster-gen- 
eral, i, 151 

Fawkes, Guy, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 294- 

295 
Fawn, defined, xxxv, 361 
Fay, Godemar du, xxxv, 20-1 
Fazio, Friar, in The Betrothed, 

xxi, 136 
Fear, Augustine, St., on, vii, 29; 
Burke on, xxiv, 51-2; cause of, 
110-12; critic, the most rigid, ix, 
:i22\ darkness, cause of, xxiv, 70, 
120-3; David on use of, xli, 503; 
delight caused by, xxiv, 114; dis- 
honorableness of, 380; Emerson 
on, V, 99; Epictetus on, ii, 135 
(55); eyes of, to see under the 
ground, xiv, 164; of God, Bunyan 
on, XV, 154-5; of God, necessary 
to grace, 262; guide to duty, v, 
133; Hobbes's definition of, xxxiv, 
353; honoring, a way of, 378; 
hope and, iv, 57; ignorance, cause 
of, V, 17; instinctive, xi, 266; 
judge of souls, viii, 135; Locke 
on, xxxvii, 102, 105; loudness, 
cause of, xxiv, y2\ love and, 
xxxvi, 57-9; Marcus Aurelius on, 



ii, 284 (25), 287 (34); music and, 
xli, 489; obscurity cause of, xxiv, 
52-3; Pascal on religious, xlviii, 
96 (262) ; power, idea of, cause 
of, xxiv, 57-62; in privation, 63; 
sounds, intermitting, ca-ise of, 
73-4; suddenness, cause of, 73; 
vastness, in idea of, 63-4, 115 (see 
also Sublime) 

Fearing, in Pii^grim's Progress, xv, 
176, 256-62, 276-7 

Fearlessness, Confucius on, xliv, 47 
(4), 49 (21) 

Fears, and desires, iii, 50; make us 
traitors, xlvi, 353; may be liars, 
xlii, 1165 

Feasts, in New Atlantis, iii, 175 

Feathers, The Three, xvii, 166- 
169 

Feathers, fine, and fine birds, xvii, 
18 

Febo, Cavalier del, xiv, 123 

Federal Government, and state gov- 
ernments, xliii, 222-3, 224-7, 229- 
30, 239; Jay's argument for a, 
217-21 

Federalist, The, (Nos. I and II), 
xliii, 212-21 

Federigo, Cardinal, in The Be- 
trothed, xxi, 367-76; with the 
Unnamed, 377-88; visits Lucia, 
413-18; visits Lucia's village, 424- 
7; advises Lucia, 432; reprimands 
Abbondio, 433-44; in Milan fam- 
ine, 477-9, 486; in plague, 526, 
548-9; 552, 554-5 

Feeble-mind, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 176-7, 274-7, 278-9, 285, 288, 
292, 295, 306; parts with Chris- 
tiana, 316; death, 318 

Feejee Islanders, cannibalism of, v, 
207 

Feeling, beautiful in, the, xxiv, 
103-4; fancy and, xlviii, 98 (274- 
5); Longfellow on, xlii, 1391; 
Mill, James, on, xxv, 74; neces- 
sary to persuasion, xix, 27-8; 
reason and, xlviii, 98 (276-8), 99 
(282) ; reason and, Schiller on, 
xxxii, 257-63; reasoning and, 
xlviii, 9-10; virtue, basis of, xxxii, 
373; Ruskin on, xxviii, 116-18; 
sense of, as source of sublime, 
xxiv, 76; Wordsworth on need of 
developing, xxxix, 287-8 

Feelings, Mill on the, xxv, 37, 95, 
264-5; thoughts and, xxxix, 286- 
7; undermined by analysis, xxv, 

91 

Fees, in New Atlantis, not per- 
mitted, iii, 156, 158 

Feet, Locke on care of the, xxxvii, 
11-13 

Feigning, Lady, in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 104 



GENERAL INDEX 



235 



Felice, Father (see Casati Felice), 
xxi 

Felice, partner of Cellini, xxxi, 138, 

172-4, 176-7, 178, 180 

Felician, Father, in Evangeline, 

xlii, 1358-9; in the church, 1374; 

on day of exile, 1380, 1382; with 

Evangeline in wanderings, 1385, 

1387. 1390-1, 1395; at Basil's, 

i397» 1400 

Felician of Silva, books of xiv, 20 

Felicion, the shoemaker, ii, 130 (40) 

Felicity, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 359; 

lies in progress, 384 
Felix, Roman governor, xliv, with 

Paul, 484 (24-35). 486 i22-y') 
Felix, governor of Armenia, in 
PoLYEUCTE, tells Pauline of Sev- 
erus's approach, xxvi, 78-80; his 
wrath at Polyeucte, 95-8; his 
dilemma, 99-100; determines not 
to pardon Polyeucte, 111-12; with 
Polyeucte, 1 12-14, 116; condemns 
Polyeucte to death, 11 7-18; be- 
comes a convert, 120-1 
Felix V, Pope (see Amadeus, Car- 
dinal) 
Felixmarte of Hircania, xiv, loi, 

320 
Fellowes, Sir Charles, researches 

of, v, 374 
Fellow-feeling, Confucius on, xliv, 

■r. 54 (23) 

Fellowship, in pain, divides not 

smart, iv, 373 
Felon, origin of word, xxxv, 383 
Felons, children of, v, 359 
Felony, crimes included under, xxxv, 

383-4 
Feltro, Bishop of, xx, 323 note 15 
Fencing, Locke on, xxxvii, 183-4; 

Milton on, iii, 257 
Fenelon, Hume on ethics of, xxvii, 

216 
Fennians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

122-3 
Feoblas, balsam of (see Balsam of 

Fierebias) 
Fer Caille, xlix, 221, 226, 247, 257 
Fer Gair, xlix, 214, 223, 230, 247 
Fer le, xlix, 214, 22^^ 247 
Fer Rogain, xlix, 214, 223, 225, 228, 

230-1 et seq. 
Ferdinand II, in The Betrothed, 

in Mantuan contest, xxi, 81 
Ferdinand IV, Dante on, xx, 369 

note 9 
Ferdinand V, of Spain, Machiavelli 

on, xxxvi, 75-6; Pope Julius and, 

47; Raleigh on, xxxix, 89-90 
Ferdinand, son of Alva, in Egmont, 

xix, 298-9, 300-2, 310; final scene 

with Egmont, 323-9 
Ferdinand of Naples, iii, 52 
Ferdinand, in Duchess of Malfi, 

in presence chamber scene, xlvii, 



724-6; hires Bosola to watch Duch- 
ess, 727-^0; Antonio on, 726-7 y at 
court of Malfi, 755; with Duchess, 
755-6; with Bosola, 756-7; in 
Milan, his frenzy, 795, 796-8, 810; 
death, 814; learns flight of Duch- 
ess, 769-70; letter to Duchess, 
773; on Malatesti, 768; parting 
counsel to Duchess, 730-2; learns 
her fault, 751-4; with Bosola after 
murder, 789-92; with Bosola at 
Malfi, 776-7 'y with Duchess in 
prison, 777-8; his purposes of 
vengeance, 780-1; with Duchess 
in chamber, 759-61; his return to 
Rome, 762 

Ferdinand, in The Tempest, in 
shipwreck, xlvi, 380, 388; led by 
Ariers song, 393-4; meeting with 
Miranda and Prospero, 394-7; at 
his task, 412; with Miranda, 413- 
15; betrothed to Miranda, 423-9; 
at chess with Miranda, 437; re- 
union with father, 43^-8 

Ferguson, Sir Adam, vi, 167; Car- 
lyle on, xxv, 382 

Ferguson, Sir Samuel, Fair Hills 
OF Ireland, xli, 947-8 

Ferguson, Robert, vi, 16; Burns on, 
87, 92, 93; Inscription for Head- 
stone OF, 269-70; Inscription 
under Portrait of, 270; Lines 
ON THE Poet, 458 

Fermentation, Pasteur's Theory of, 
xxxviii, 289-381 

Fermo, (Dliverotto of, xxxvi, 31-3 

Fernando Noronha, Darwin on, 
xxix, 21 

Fernondo, in Cardenio*s story, xiv, 
215-18, 253-61 

Fernando, and Dorothea, xiv, 271- 
277 

Fernando, and Lucinda, xiv, 278-9 

Fernando, Don, reunion with Doro- 
thea, xiv, 374-84 

Ferragosto, the, xxxi, 42 note 2 

Ferrante, Don, in The Betrothed, 
xxi, 428, 431; learning of, 464-9; 
in the plague, 647-9 

Ferrara, Cardinal (see Este, Ippo- 
lito d') 

Ferrara, Duke of, xxxvi, 8; and 
Cellini, xxxi, 208-9, 280, 282-3. 
285; and Louis, xxxvi, 13; ana 
Paul III, xxxi, 280 

Ferrara, Marquis of, xx, 53 note 9 

Ferrer, Antonio, at Milan, xxi, 205- 
6, 207, 22yz4 

Ferrier, Miss, To, vi, 289-90 

Ferro, Drake at, xxxiii, 242 

Fertility, as distinction between vari- 
eties and species, xi, 326 (see 
also Sterility) 

Fertilization, methods of, xi, 203- 
5; remarks on, 109-14 

Fesque, defined, xxvii, 113 

Festino, Mrs., xviii, 117 



236 



GENERAL INDEX 



/ 



Festus, Porcius, xliv, 486 (27) ; and 
Paul, 486 (1-27), 490 (24, 30-1) 

Fete Champetre, The, vi, 327-8 

P'eudal Laws, of succession, x, 529- 
30 

Feure, Raoul le, xxxix, 5 

Fevers, Indian treatment of, xlin, 

36 
Fevre, le, Dryden on, xiii, 15 
"Few sometimes may know wher 

thousands err," iv, 210 
Fewster, Mr., xxxviii, 193, 204, 224 
Fiad sceme, the giant, xlix, 255 
Fiaschino, the chamberlain, xxxi, 

282, 285 
Fichte, Mazzini on, xxxii, 402; pa- 
triotism of, 409; on silent work, 
XXV, 433-4 
Ficinus, on nature, xxxix, 114 
FicKjLE Fortune: A Fragment, vi, 

37 
Fickleness of man, vii, 309 (i) 
Fiddler, in Faust, xix, 181 
Fiddler, A, in the North, vI, 511 
Fiddler's Song, from Jolly Beg- 
gars, vi, 134-5 
FiDELE, by Collins, xH, 487 
Fidele's Dirge, xl, 275 
Fidelity, Penn on, i, 357; of princes, 
xxxvi, 59-60; worth of, intrinsic, 
xxxii, 366 
Field, Barron, in Hazlitt's discus- 
sion, xxvii, 289 
Field, parable of the, xv, 208 
Fielding, Henry, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 
289; Hunting Song, xli, 513-14; 
his Joseph Andrews, xiv, 3; Pref- 
ace TO Joseph Andrews, xxxix, 
184-90; sketch of life and works, 
184 note; religion of, xxviii, 16; 
Thackeray on, 7, 18 
Fiennes, house of, motto of, v, 388 
I'^ierabras, xiv, 514-15 
Fierebras, Balsam of, xiv, 80-1 
I'^ieschi, Bonifazio de', xx, 245 note 4 
Fiesole, Epitaph at, xli, 929 
Fife, in Life a^ Dream, with 
Rosaura, arrival in Poland, xxvi, 
5-10; with Se^ismund, 11-14; ar- 
rested, 15-17; in the tower, 52^3; 
found by soldiers,^ 54-6; with 
Rosaura again, 61; in the battle, 
63-4; death, 64-5 
Fig-tree, Indian, iv, 291; parable of, 
xliv, 396 (6-9) ; proverb of the, 

V, II 

Figulus, C. Marcius, mention of, ix, 

85 
Figures, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 220- 

2; Plato's definition of, v, 182 
File and Serpent, fable of, xvii, 21 
Filippo Argenti, Dante^ on, xx, 34 
Filippo, Francesco di (see Lippi 

Francesco) 
Final Causes (see First Cause) 
Finance, Burke on science of, xxiv, 

376 



Finches, in Galapagos Islands, xxix» 
401-2 

Findlater, Andrew, xxv, 196 

Findlay, song on, vi, 51-2 

Fineness, defined by Burke, xxiv, 
103, 132 
♦ Fines, excessive, forbidden, xliii, 
208 (8); More on, xxxvi, 170, 173 

Fingers, in story of Darning- 
needle, xvii, 336 

Finite, the, a manifestation of the 
infinite, xxviii, 353 

Finitude, Kelvin on, xxx, 270 

Finn, story of, xlix, 35 note 5, z^^ 
.^7y 38 

Finnbogi, the Norseman, xliii, 17-19 

Finns, sailors* notion of, xxiii, 43 

Fiorentino, Giuliano, xxxi, 73 

Fiorino of Cellino, xxxi, 6 

Firdonsi, Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 
136 

Fire, lesson of the, xv, 238; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 270 (9) ; methods 
of producing, xxx, 59-60; methods 
of producing, by friction, xxix. 

Fire-arms, and civilization, x, 471 
Fire Bells, Poe on, xlii, 1284-5 
Fire-engines, ancient, ix, 396 note 
Fireflies, Darwin on, xxix, 40 
Firenzuola, Giovanni of, xxxi, 27-9 
Fireside, to make a happy, vi, 389 
Firk, in Shoemaker's Holiday, at 
Ralph's departure, xlvii, 451-4; at 
Eyre's, 4^8-61, 465-9» 475 ; an- 
nounces Eyre's appointment, 478- 
9; at Old Ford, 481-2; before 
shop, 487-9; with Ralph, 490-1; 
at Lord Mayor's, 494-7; at Ham- 
mon's wedding, 499-506; at Eyre's 
dinner, 506-7, 509, 513 
Firmament, Addison on the, xl, 
410; xiv, 547; Habington on the, 
xl, 258 
Firminus, and his astrology, vii, 

1 08- 1 o 
Firmus, Romanus, letter to, ix, 213, 

271 
First Cause, Hume on the, xxxvii, 
328-9; ideas of different, xxxix, 
106, 108; Marcus Aurelius on 
the, ii, 256 (75), 268 (i), 27X 
(28) ; Pascal on knowledge of, 
xlviii, 27, 28, ZZ^'y Rousseau on, 
xxxiv, 255-6 
First Fruits (see Annates) 
First Principles, Pascal on, xlviii, 

99 (282)^ 
Fish, creation of, iv, 240; electric 
organs of, xi, 198-200; flying, 186- 
7; flying. Pretty on, xxxiii, 211; 
fresh-water, distribution of, xi, 
427-8; heart in, xxxviii, 73, 95, 
138, i40j^ Herodotus on breeding 
of, xxxiii, 46-7; Mohammed on 
eating of, xiv, iot8; price of, by 
what determined, x, 54, 208; price 



GENERAL INDEX 



237 



of, rent as element in, 154; res- 
piration of, XXX, 175; teleostean, 
xi, 357-8 

Fisher, Bishop of Rochester, xxxvi, 
120, 122 

Fisher, The, fable of, xvii, z-j 

Fisher and Little Fish, fable of, 
xvii, 32 

Fisher Boy, song of, in Wilhelm 
Tell, xxvi, 370 

Fisheries, produce of, source of cap- 
ital, X, 230-1 

Fisherman, The, and His Wife, 
xvii, 89-96 

Fisherman, The, story of, xvi, 28- 

59 
Fishes, hearts in, xxxvm, 81-2, 88; 

Smart on, xli, 500 
Fishing, Franklin's early ideas of, i, 

36 
Fistinghound, the, xxxv, 370 
Fitch, the shop-keeper, xxiii, 410 
Fitela, and Sigemund, xlix, 30 
Fitness, Augustine, St., on, vii, 60; 
beauty and, v, 312; cause of 
beauty, xxiv, 89-91; in works of 
art, 91-3; Penn on, i, 355 (161) 
Fitzgerald, Edward, Rubaiyat of 

Omar Khayyam, xli, 970-88 
Fitz-James, Lord, xxxvi, 137 
Fitz Roy, Capt., Darwin on, xxix, ^ 
Five, Nature s love of number, xlii, 

1301 
Five Carlins, The, vi, 389-92 
Fixed Capital, defined, x, 225-6; de- 
pends on circulating capital, 229; 
expense of maintaining, 234-6, 
240; kinds of, four, 227-8; resem- 
blance to money, ^z^-^^ 240 
Fjolnir, xlix, 309-11. 367. 435 
Flaccus, Gains Valerius, Dante on, 

XX, 19 
Flaccus, M. Laenius, Cicero on, ix, 

91-2 
Flame, direction of, xxx, loi; Fara- 
day on, 99: forms of, 101-3; il- 
lumination from, cause of, 11 0-14, 
164; structure of, in candles, 
104-7 
Flamens, Roman, ix, 228 note i 
Flamingoes, Darwin on, xxix, 78 
Flamininus, Lucius, expelled from 

Senate, ix, 61 ^ 
Flat-fish, peculiarities of, xi, 240-43 
Flatterer, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 137-8 
Flatterers, Epictetus on, ii, 182 (4), 
183 (13); fable of, xvii, 12-13; in 
Hell, XX, 47, 78 
Flatteries, the four, xii, 356 note 
Flattery, Bacon on, iii, 133; Burke 
on, xxiv, 46, 157; Chaucer on, xl, 
48; Cicero on, ix, 39-42; Confu- 
cius on, xliv, 5 (3), 18 (24), 61 
(17);^ Hobbes ^ on, xxxiv, 387; 
Kempis on avoiding, vii, 303 (5); 
love of, reason for, v, 229; 



Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 80; para- 
site of Luxury, vi, 262; Shake- 
speare on, xlyi, 140; a way of 
honoring, xxxiv, 378 
Flavins, the tribune, and Caesar, xii, 

325; Cicero on, ix, 151, 154 
Fleance, in Macbeth, xlvi, 321-2, 

337» 339-40, 346 
Fleetness, limits of, xi, 56 
Fleetwood, Dr., and the Spectator, 

xxvii, 172 
Fletcher, John, Aspatia's Song, xl, 
330; Custom, of the Country, 
xxxix, 182-3; life and works, xlvii, 
638; Massinger and, 818; Melan- 
choly, xl, 330-1 (see also Beau- 
mont and Fletcher) 
Fletcher, Master, with Drake, xxxiii, 

214, 218 
Flibbertigibbet, xlvi, 257 
Flies, Harrison on, and spiders, 
xxxv, 366-7; Pascal on, xlviii, 124 
(367) 
Flipotte, in Tartuffe, xxvi, 189, 196 
Flodden, Lament for, xli, 495-6 
Flodden, men of Ettrick Forest at, 

xli, 494 note 
Flogging, Dana on, xxiii, 379-81; in 

England, v, 359-6o 
Florence, arms of commune of, xxxi, 
13 note 3; auxiliaries employed 
by, xxxvi, 47; built in imitation 
of Rome, xxxi, 6; Dante on, xx, 
44 note 12, 108 note, 119 note 11, 
171-2, 351-8; dress in (i6th cen- 
tury), xxxi, 30 note 2; the "Eight" 
of, 16 note 2; factions in, xx, 
2"], 103-4 and notes; Guelfi and 
Ghibellini in, 68 notes i, 2; guilds 
of, xxxi, 12 note 2; Macaulay on, 
xxvii, 390; mercenaries of, xxxvi, 
44; name, origin of, xxxi, (>•"]% 
patrons of, xx, 58 note 5 ; Pistoja 
and, xxxvi, 56-7; the plague in, 
xxxi, 87 note 6; policy towards 
Pisa and Pistoja, xxxvi, ^2'^ re- 
publican party of, xxxi, ^i note 
I, 33 note i; subiugation of, 
xxvii, 411, 420; wealth of (14th 
century), 388 
Florida, cession of, xliii, 286-95 
Florimell, Spenser's, xxxix, 68 
Florio, John,^ translator of Mon- 
taigne, xxxii, 3 
Floripes, Princess, xiv, 514 
Florismarte of Hircania, xiv, 53 
Florus, and Agrippinus, ii, 119 (8) 
Flower, Prof., on conformity of 

type, xi, 473 
Flower in the Crannied Wall, 

xlii, 1039 
Flower, The, by Herbert, xl, 354 
Flowers, Bacon on, v, 11 8-19; beauty 
of, Burke on, xxiv, 80; beauty of, 
Darwin on, xi, 211; Columella on, 
xxxv, 250; correlation in, xi, 156- 



238 



GENERAL INDEX 



8; Emerson on, as gifts, v, 229, 

240; insects and, relations of, xi, 

106-7, 108-9, iio-ii; parable of 

the, XV, 207-8 
Flowers of the Forest, xli, 494 
Flowers, Little Ida's, xvii, 355-62 
Flowery Banks of Cree, vi, 515-16 
Flue, Klaus von der, in Wilhelm 

Tell, xxvi, 401, 411 
Flute, Alcibiades on the, xii, iii- 

12; Dry den on the, xl, 399 
Fluxions, invented by Newton, 

xxxiv, 128-9 
Fly, on the chariot-wheel, iii, 134 
Fly and Bald Man, fable of, xvii, 

17 
Flycatchers, tyrant, Darwin on, xi, 

187-8 
Flying-fish, Darwin on, xi, 186-7; 

Pretty on, xxxiii, 211 
Flying Trunk, The, xvii, 364-70 
Focaccia of Cancellieri, xx, 135 

note 4 
Foetus, blood in the, xxxviii, tj^ 

circulation in the, 96-9; Harvey 

on formation of the, 135; heart 

in the, 89, 139, 143-4; liver in 
^ the, 134-5 

Fogliani, Giovanni, xxxvi, 31, 32 
Fogo, Island of, xxxiii, 211 
Foiano, Benedetto da, xxxi, 248 note 
Foix, Diana of, Montaigne to, xxxii, 

Foix, Gaston de, xlvii, ^22^ 

Folco, of Genoa, xx, 2>^2 note 8, 324 

Folger, Peter, i, 9 

Folk-Lore and Fable, xvii 

Follow Thy Fair Sun, xl, 292 

Followers, Essay on, Bacon's, iii, 

125-6 
Folly, Burns on, vi, 192-3; Ecclesi- 

astes on, xliv, 351 (1-3), 352 (12- 

15) 
Folly, Human, xl, 336 
Folly, Raptures of, vi, 489 
Folques, of Marseilles, xx, 322 note 

8, 324 
Fonblanque, Mill on, xxv, 61, 66, 

70, 84, 113, 128 
Fondness, Confucius on, xliv, 60 

Fontaine, M. de, xxxviii, 52 
Fontainebleau, Cellini's work on, 

xxxi, 307 
Fontana, Domenico, xxxi, 142 
Fontanes, Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 

Fontenelle, M., on ajffectation in 
nature, v, 348; on Newton, xxxiv, 
III, 122 

Fontenelle, Miss, addresses spoken 
by, vi, 474, 508-10; Epigram on, 

^ 475 . 

Food, in ancient Egypt, xxxiii, 40, 
45-6; animal, Darwin on, xxix, 
129-30; as circulating capital, x, 
228-9; labor in relation to, 155-6; 



Locke on, of children, xxxvii, 16- 
22\ materials and, comparative 
values of, x, 186-8; Mohammed 
on lawful, xlv, 1008-9, 1018; ne- 
cessity of, iv, 194; Penn on selec- 
tion of, i, 345 (59-62); rent of 
land used for, x, 155-71; of rich 
and poor, 174; variability due to 
excess of, xi, 25 

Food-supply, industry and, x, 86, 
87, 88-9; population and, 83-4, 
174; wages and, 78-9, 87-8, 90-1 

Fool, in King Lear, xlvi, 221-4, 
22^^ 22S-gf 239-42, 250-7, 260-2; 
remarks on character of, 202 

Fool, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

295 

Fool, song of, from Jolly Beggars, 
vi, 132 

Fool-hardiness, Locke on, xxxvii, 
102 

Fools, disclosed by words, xvii, 31; 
Browne on, iii, 282 (18); Para- 
dise of, iv, 149-50; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 34 (80) ; "rush in where 
angels fear," xxiv, 193; Solomon 
on, xxxvi, 165; test of, iii, 60; in 
Utopia, xxxvi, 224; wise men and, 

274-5 , , 

Foot-pound, defined, xxx, 188 

Footsteps of Angels, xlii, 1319 

Foppa, Ambrogio, xxxi, 50 note 

For a* That, vi, 140 

Forbearance, Brynhild on, xlix, 325; 
Epictetus on, ii, 179 (183); Locke 
on habit of, xxxvii, 20 

Forbes, Edward, on Atlantic Islands, 
xi, 404; on distribution, 412, 417; 
on fossils, 340; on glaciers, xxx, 
235, 239, 241; on shells, xi, 146; 
on species, 242 

Force, Bacon on, iii, 10 1; Emerson 
on, V, 257; Hume on idea of, 
xxxvii, 355-70; Milton on, iv, 106, 
449; Pascal on, xlviii, 117 (334) 

Force, in Prometheus Bound, viii, 
156 

Force, Conservation of, xxx, iBi- 
220 

Forces, Correlation of, xxx, 75-87; 
Helmholtz on, 197, 215, 218 

Forces of Matter, Faraday on, xxx, 
5-88 

Foreign Commerce, advantages of, 
X, 342-3» 377-80; of agricultural 
states, 456; capital least attracted 
by, 323; capital used in, 310-14; 
disadvantages of, 321; gains in, 
377-80; government interferences 
with, 346-406; Luther on, xxxvi, 
348, 349; Mun on, x, 328; neces- 
sity of, 315-16 

Foreign Competition, Emerson on. 
V, 296 

Foreign Conquests, More on, xxxvii 
168-9 



GENERAL INDEX 



239 



Foreign Dominions, Bacon on, iii, 

80-1; Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 8-12, 

18-19; arms in, J2\ factions in, 

72-3 
Foreign Missions, 'pious editors," 

view of, xlii, 1452 
Foreign Nations, Washington on 

relations with, xliii, 261-5 
Foreign Things, Emerson on love 

of, V, 84; Harrison on love of, 

XXXV, 248-9, 251-2; Holinshed on 

love of, 335 
Foreigners, liberty of, in Massa- 
chusetts, xliii, 83-4 
Foreknowledge, Chaucer on, xl, 46 

note 147; is fore-sorrow, viii, 14; 

Milton on, iv, 141; not necessity, 

XX, 359 note 7 
Forel, on tides, xxx, 297 
J'^orese, in Purgatory, xx, 241-3 
Foresight, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 333, 

358-9; Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 49; 

may be vain, vi, 126 
Foresters, Emerson on, xlii, 1305, 

1306-7 
Forests, Darwin on sublimity of, 

xxix, 530; Emerson on beauty of, 

v, 233-4; Geikie on destruction 

of, xxx, 366-7; growth of, checked 

by cattle, x, 176-7; rent of, 176-7; 

Thoreau on, xxviii, 424-5 
Forges, in Dante's Hel,i„ xx, 122-3 
Forgetful Green, in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 246 
Forgetfulness, Augustine, St., on, 

vii, 180-1; Keats on, xli, 898-9; 

Pascal on, xlviii, 125 (372) 
Forgiveness, Bacon on, iii, 15, 16, 

36; Jesus on, xliv, 405 (3-4); 

Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 194 (7); 

Pittacus on, 153 (96) 
Forli, Countess of, xxxvi, 13, 75 
Forlorn, My Love, No Comfort 

Near, vi, 572-3 
Formal, and material, ii, 217 (21), 

228 (13), 249 (29), 247 (10) 
Formal Instinct, Schiller on the, 

xxxii, 256-63 
Formalist, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 43-6 
Formality, Bacon on, iii, 131-2; 

Pascal on, xlviii, 92 (249-52) ; 

Penn on, i, 3S1 (ii9),,405; as 

source of power, xxxiv, 375; 

Swift on, xxvii, iio-ii 
Fornication, Mohammed on, xlv, 

927; Mohammedan punishment of, 

982 note 6, 984; Paul, St., on, 

506-7, 508 (13-18); punishment 

of, in old England, xxxv, 384-5,; 

punishment of, in Utopia, xxxvi, 

221; Spirit of, iii, I77 
Forsaken Garden, A, xlii, 1255 
Forsaken Merman, The, xlii, 1168-72 



Fort George, massacre of, i, 160 
Fort William Henry, attack on, i, 

228, 229 
Fortebraccio (see Braccio) 
Fortescue, George, xxxiii, 238, 267 
Fortinbras, in Hamlet, xlvi, 90, 93, 
118-19, 164, 198-9; not in original 
story, 86 
Fortitude, Dante's star of, xx, 148 
note 5 ; defined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 
354; Locke on, xxxvii, 102-4, 104- 
8; the virtue of adversity, iii, 

17 
Fortresses, Machiavelli in, xxxvi, 

74-5 

Fortunatus, xlv, 526 (17) 

Fortune, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 
104-6 

Fortune, Browne on, iii, 281-3; 
Burns on fading, vi, 178; changes 
of, xxxix, loo-i, 103; Chaucer on, 
xl, 50; Cicero on, ix, 27, 106-7; 
Cockburn on, xli, 494-5 ; Dante on, 
XX, 31; Descartes on, xxxiv, 23'y 
Emerson on, v, 88, 92; favors the 
brave, ix, 300; good, honorable, 
xxxiv, 380; inequality of, verses 
on, xvi, 243; injustice of, lines on, 
vi, 458; life entangled with, ii, 
182 (i); love and, xlvi, 144; 
Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 83-6; 
Marcus Aurelius on good, ii, 234 
(36) ; Montaigne on changes of, 
xxxii, 5-6; More's lines on, xxxvi, 
130; Mortimer on, xlvi, 83; Pope 
on gifts of, xl, 443-8; Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 96, 100-2; Shakespeare on, 
xlvi, 123, 130; Tennyson on, xlii, 
1007; Vespucci on, xliii, 31; vir- 
tue and, xxxi, 13 

Fortune, Fickle, a fragment, vi, 

37 
Fortune, Raging, a fragment, vi, 

38 
Fortune, To, by Thomson, xl, 454 
Fosca, Bernardin di, xx, 204 note 18 
Fosians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 116 
Fossiliferous Strata, Lyell on forma- 
tion of, xxxviii, 421-4, 429-31, 

433-4, 434-7 
Fossils, Falloppio on, xxxviii, 408; 

old ideas of, xi, 175; xxxviii, 417 

(see Palseontological Collections) 
Fothergill, Dr., i, 126, 154, 166, 

167 
Fouche's Police, v, 468 
Foulk, Samuel, i, 266, 268, 280 
Foundations, Pascal on, xlviii, 115 

(330) 
Founders of States, Bacon on, iii, 

136; Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 20-3 
Fountain, The, xli, 617-19 
Fountains, Bacon on, iii, 121-2 
Fourier, Mill on, xxv, no 
Fowl, descent of, xi, 36 



240 



GENERAL INDEX 



Fox, Bishop, and More, xxxvi, 95; 
quoted, XXXV, 398 

Fox, Charles J., and Burke, xxiv, 
6; V, 219-20; Burns on, vi, 55, 
168-9, 357; the debt of honor, v, 
220; Emerson on, 275; Napoleon 
on, 220 

Fox, Dr., and John Donne, xv, 369- 
70 * 

Fox, George, Emerson on, v, 145, 
243; Penn and, xxxiv, 76; on 
slavery, i, 176; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 

72-3 
Fox AND Cat, fable of, xvii, 26 
Fox AND Crow, fable of, xvii, 12 
Fox AND GrOAT, fable of, xvii, 46 
Fox AND Grapes, fable of, xvii, 23 
Fox AND Lion, fable of, xvii, 24 
Fox AND Mask, fable of, xvii, 18 
Fox AND Mosquitoes, fable of, xvii, 

37 
Fox AND Stork, fable of, xvii, 17 
Fox AND Woi^F, Grimm's story of, 

xvii, 177-9 
Fox, Cock, and Dog, fable of, xvii, 

35 
Fox Without a Tail,, fable of, xvii, 

38 
Foxes, in San Pedro Island, xxix, 

297 
Fox-goose, the, in Egypt, xxxiii, 38 
Fracastorius, on the heart, xxxviii, 

79 

Fragment of Song, vi, 249, 471 

Frailty, Burns on, vi, 193 

Framms, of the Germans, xxxiii, 98 

France, apprenticeships in, x, 129; 
armies of, xxxvi, 49; belles let- 
tres in (i8th century), xxxiv, 
143; Burke on old regime in, 
xxiv, 274-80; Calvinism in, xxxix, 
29-50; church property, confisca- 
tion of, in, xxiv, 253-69; clergy 
of, under the old regime, 287-95; 
departments, communes, and can- 
tons in, 321, 330-1; economists of, 
X, 464-51 England and, trade of, 
385-6; England and, in war, iii, 
79; Goldsmith on, xli, 539-40; 
interest, rates of, in, x, 95-6; 
Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 9-10, 16- 
17, 64-5; More on kingdom of, 
168; nobility of, under the old 
regime, xxiv, 282-7; parliaments, 
abolition of, 270; parliaments, old, 
of, 354-6; poetry, early, of, xxviii, 
75-7; Raleigh on kings of, xxxix, 
84-8; revenue laws of, x, 566-7; 
Swiss mercenaries in, xxxvi, 49; 
Taine on, xxxix, 454-5; taxation 
in (i8th century), x, 570-2; thea- 
tre in (i8th century), xxxiv, 157- 
8; treaty with U. S., xliii, 267- 
72;^ Voltaire on civil wars of, 
xxxiv, 88 

France, King of, in Lear, in love 



with Cordelia, xlvi, 204-5, 209- 
1 1 ; notified of Lear's misfortunes, 
249-50; his invasion of England, 
272, 275 
Francesca di Rimini, in Hell, xx, 

23-5 
Francesco, Gian (see Penni) 
Franchise, qualifications for the, v, 

251-2 
Francis, Mr., Attorney-General of 

Pennsylvania, i, 117 
Francis I, Andrea del Sarto and, 
xlii, II 34, II 36; Calvin to, xxxix, 
29» 49-50; at Camp Marolle, 
xxxviii, 13; Charles V and, xxxi, 
71 note, 335, 342 note i, 348 note 
i; Cellini and, 95, 205, 210, 217, 
222, 260, 272, 281, 286-7, 290-3, 
294-8, 302, 303, 304, 305-9. 3^2, 
313, 3i4» 323» 326, 330-1, 333-6, 
337-8, 339-40, 342, 343-9, 363, 365- 
7» 390; Clement and, vii, 124; 
expedition against Turin, xxxviii, 
9; Guido Guidi and, xxxi, 311 
note i; at Landresy, xxxviii, 17; 
Piero Strozzi and, xxxi, 303-4; 
and poets, xxvii, 43 ; Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 87; in triumvirate of kings, 
iii, 52 ; war with England, xxxi, 
348 and note i 
Francis II, Raleigh on, xxxix, 87 
Francis, St., Dante on, xx, 332-4; 
Luther on, xxxvi, 315; in Para- 
dise, XX, 421; quoted, vii, 333 
Francis, St., Xavier, hymn attrib- 
uted to, xlv, 568-9 
Franciscans, Dante on the, xx, 339 

note 28; in limbo, iv, 150 
Francisco, in Hamlet, xlvi, 87-8 
Francisco, in The Tempest, xlvi, 

400, 421 
Franco of Bologna, xx, 191 note 3 
Franklin, Chaucer's, xl, 20-1 
Franklin, Abiah, mother of Benja- 
min, i, 9, 12-13 
Franklin, Benjamin, ability to write, 
advantages gained by, i, 62-3, 65; 
aids his workmen to start im busi- 
ness, 97, 108-9; ancestry and fam- 
ily of, 6-10; anecdote of fish, 36; 
anecdote of wharf, 11; Art of 
Virtue, 90-1 ; as Assembly's com- 
missioner to England, 157-70, 174; 
assists Braddock, 134-40, 142-3; 
Autobiography of, 5-170; becomes 
printer, 14; becomes vegetarian, 
17; birth of, 3, 9, 171; Bond, the 
Doctors, and, 143-4; Boston, de- 
parture from, 22-3\ Boston, first 
return to, 30-1; Bradford, work 
for, 23, 27 \ in business with 
Meredith, 55-6, 58-9, 61, 62-4; in 
business for self, 64-6; in charge 
of frontier defences, 145-9; city- 
watch, suggests reform of, 103; 
clerk of Assembly, 101-2, 111-12, 
119-20; colonel of militia, 150-2; 



GENERAL INDEX 



241 



commissioner to the Indians, 120- 
i; daily program of, 87; death 
of, 173; degrees conferred on, 
129, 173; Dialogue advocating a 
militia, 145, 150; disputatious turn 
of, 15-16; Dissertation on Liberty 
and Necessity, 43-4, 57-8; domes- 
tic life of, 69, 80; Dunham, Mr., 
work for, 50-2; early occupations 
of, 3, lo-ii, 13-14; education of, 
3, 10, 12, 18; felicity of his life, 

5, 89; "fire** engine, 115; five 
kings and, 79-80; food, indiffer- 
ence to, 12; Hemphill and, 98-9; 
hospital, 121-3; industry of, 47, 
51, 61, 66, 79; influence of, 121- 
2; influence of Abel Tames on, 
71-2; intrigues of, 68; Journal of, 
51 note; journalist, 96-7; Junto 
formed by, 59-61; at Keimers, 27- 
9» 36-7, 52-6, 58; Keimer's new 
religion and, 37; Keith, Sir Wil- 
liam, relations with, 29-32, 35-6, 
40-3, 51; languages studied by, 
99; letters of, as Busy Body, 62; 
library, founds first public, 69-70, 
77-9; life of, 3-4; life of, chief 
events in, 171-4; in London, 42- 
51; on London streets, 126-8; 
marriage of, 69; match for, pro- 
jected by Mrs. Godfrey, 67-8; 
member Royal Society, 156; mod- 
eration of, 91, 19; moral living, 
plan of, 82-90; New England 
Courant, connection of, with, 3, 
20-2; open stove invented by, 116; 
organizes fire company, 103-4; 
organizes militia, 1 09-11; paper 
money discussion, 65; parents of, 
11-13; Party for Virtue projected 
by, 93-5 ; Pennsylvania Gazette es- 
tablished by, 62, 108; Philadel- 
phia, arrival at, 3, 26-7; Phila- 
delphia, second trip to, 32-4; 
Philosophical Society founded by, 
109; Plain Truth, no; Plan of 
Union, 129-31; poetry of, juvenile, 
15; Poor Richard's Almanac, 95- 
6; postmaster, 102; postmaster- 
general, 128-9, 151. i54» ^7Z\ 
prayers used bv, 81-2, 87; Pres- 
byterian Church and, 80-2; pro- 
prietary quarrels, 132-4, .151.-2, 
156-8; prose writing, practise in, 
15-17; public offices, 3-4, 119-20; 
public printer, 63, 65-6, 101-2; 
Read, Miss, and, 26, 29, 37-8, 40, 
43» 51. 69; reading, love of, 14, 
15, 16, 17, 18, 44. 79; James, re- 
lations with brother, 3, i4-i5» i7. 
20-2, 31, 100; religious belief of, 

6, 18, 43-4, 57-8, 80, 86-7, 94; 
Revolution, share in, 4, 173-4; 
scientist, 3, 119, 152-6; settle- 
ment of claims, 162-3; son, death 
of, 1 00; street-lamps improved by, 
125; streets, moves improvement 



of, 124-8; Socratic method adopt- 
ed by, 18, z6-y\ success, reason 
of, 92; surname, origin of, 7; 
swimming abilities of, 49, 50-1; 
temperance of, 46-7; tyranny, 
hatred of, 21; University of Penn- 
sylvania founded by, 109, 11 7-19; 
Vaughan on character and influ- 
ence of, 72-7 \ Way to Wealth, 
173; Whitefield and, 106-8; Wool- 
man's book on slavery published 
by, 197 note 

Franklin, Benjamin, uncle of the 
preceding, i, 8, 9, 10 

Franklin, Benjamin, Mrs. (see Read, 
Miss) 

Franklin, James, establishes New 
England Courant, ^ i, 20-1 ; rela- 
tions of, with Benjamin, 3, 14-15, 
17, 20-2, 31, 100 

Franklin, John, brother of Ben- 
jamin, i, 13, 22 

Franklin, John, uncle of Benjamin, 
i, 7» 8 

Franklin, Josiah, brother of Ben- 
jamin, i, 13 

Franklin, Josiah, father of Ben- 
jamin, i, 3, 9, lo-ii, 11-13 

Franklin, Matthew, i, 202 

Franklin, Samuel, i, 8, 14 

Franklin, Sir John, equipment of, 
V, 86; Parry on, ^62] search for, 

374 

Franklin, Thomas, grandfather of 
Benjamin, i, 7 

Franklin, ^ Thomas, uncle of Ben- 
jamin, i, 7-8 

Franklin, William, son of Ben- 
jamin, i, 120, 135, 136, 139, 145, 

Frankness, Bacon on, iii, 8, 18; 
Cicero on, ix, 39-41; Confucius 
on, xliv, 36 (20) ; Emerson on, 
V, 67 
Franzesi, Matio, xxxi, 172-3 
Franziska, in Minna von Barn- 
helm, with Minna, xxvi, 301-3; 
with landlord, 303-7; with Minna 
on finding Tellheim's ring, 307- 
10; with Just, 310-11; prepares 
Minna to receive Tellheim, 311- 
12; drags off landlord, 312-13; 
with Just, agrees to meet Tell- 
heim, 316-19; with the landlord, 
319-20; warned to beware of the 
landlord, 320-1; with Werner, talk 
of Tellheim, 322-3; with Tellheim, 
329-32; with Werner again, zZ2\ 
with Minna, the plot to win Tell- 
heim, 332-4; in scene with Ric- 
caut, 334, 337, 338-9; growing 
interest in Werner, 340, 341 ; tells 
her mistress's misfortunes, 348-9; 
with Tellheim, in the plot, 351-2; 
at interview of Minna and Tell- 



242 



GENERAL INDEX 



heim, 354, 356, 361, 364; tries to 
explain to Werner, 362; recon- 
ciliation witk Werner, 366 
Fraser, on Berkeley's Dialogues, 

xxxvii, 198 
Fraser, General, reference to, vi, 55 
Eraser's Magazine, Carlyle on, v, 

334 

Fraternities, ancient, ix, 424 note 2 

Fraud, Dante on, xx, 71 note; pun- 
ishment of, in Hell, 47, 75-146 

Freawaru, xlix, 62 and note, 63 
note 

Frederick I, Luther on, xxxvi, 277 'y 
and Milan, xx, 221-2 note 8 

Frederick II, birth of, xx, 298 note 
7; in Hell, 45 note; Luther on, 
xxxvi, 2y7\ Parma, defeat at, xx, 
213 note 6; Pierro delle Vigne and, 
56; treason punished by, 97 note 3 

Frederick of Sicily, Dante on, xx, 
370 note 12 

Frederick the Great, Mill's interest 
in, XXV, 1 1 ; and Voltaire, xxxiv, 
64 

Free Trade, Emerson on, v, 265 

Freedom, ^schylus on uncontrolled, 
viii, 135; from care, Cicero on, 
ix, 25; definition of perfect, v, 
17; Emerson on, xlii, 1313; Epic- 
tetus on, ii, 183 (10, 15), 149 
(83), 166 (136), 168 (141, 142); 
fable on, xvii, 21-2; Goethe on, 
xix, 390; insolence and, vi, 274; 
inward slaves, impossible to, iv, 
403; of labor. Smith on, x, 129- 
30; law of nature, xxvi, 12; neces- 
sary to true allegiance, iv, 140; 
Penn on use of, i, 412 (253); 
from worldly things, vii, 301-2 

Freedom and Love, xli, 801-2 

Freem.an, Edward A., life and 
works, xxviii, 234; Race and 
Language, 233-83; 1, 18 

Freeport, Sir Andrew, xxvii, 91; 
Johnson on, 175 

Freethinkers, Burke on, xxiv, 2Z7\ 
Carlyle on, xxv, 369 

Free Trade, Bacon on, iii, 91; Mill 
on, xxv, 67, 303-4; Smith on, x, 4, 
348-69, 386-7, 454-7 

Free-Will, Adam's, iv, 189; beauty 
and, xxxii, 282-3; Berkeley on, 
xxxvii, 274; cause of evil, vii, 
105; Channing on, xxviii, 343-4'. 
Confucius on, xliv, 30 (25); 
Dante on, xx, 212, 220, 304 and 
note; distinguishes man ^ from 
beasts, xxxiv, 178-9; Epictetus 
on, ii, 124 (20, 22)y 127 (29), 
149 (83); given to man, iv, 140-1; 
human, 295; Hume on, xxxvii, 
371-2, 384-5, 387, 390-4; Kant on, 
xxxii, 377-90; Machiavelh on, 
xxxvi, 84, 88; Mill on doctrine of. 



xxv, iii; Raphael on, iv, 196-7; 
Rousseau on, xxxiv, 266-8; Schil- 
ler on, xxxii, 278 (see also Au- 
tonomy of the Will) 

Freezing-point, of water, xxx, 242-4 

Freke, Dr., on origin of species, xi, 
16 

Fremont, John C, Dana on, xxiii, 
412 

Fremy, M., xxxviii, 322-4, 369-70 

Frenada, counselor of Philip II, 
xix, 285 

French, Colonel, 1, 30, 41 

French, in American Revolution, i, 
142; Burke on the, xxiv, 235-6; 
descent from Hector, claimed for, 
xiii, 20; Dryden on the, 24; 
Goldsmith on the, xli, 539-40; in- 
fluence of the, V, 393; military 
abilities of the, xxv, 322; polite 
rather than true, v, 389; senti- 
ments of the, xxv, 43; sociability 
of the, 43; Taine on the, xxxix, 
440, 449, 454-5; wiser than they 
seem, iii, 67 

French Academy, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 
158-62 

French Civil War, Burke on the, 
xxiv, 196-7 

French Classical Drama, Pellison 
on, xxviii, 68 

French Classics, xxxii, 127-8, 129- 
32, 134 

French Dramas, xxvi; Dryden on, 
xviii, 13 

French Essays, xxxii, 3-191 

French Language, Burke on the, 
xxiv, 147; Dryden on, xiii, 56; 
Hugo on changes in, xxxix, 394; 
Huxley on study of, xxviii, 229; 
Johnson on changes in, xxxix, 
212; Locke on study of, xxxvii, 
145, 164; Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 
123-4; Sidney on, xxvii, 53 

French Literature, Hugo on, xxxix, 
404; Taine on, 452 

French and Indian War, in Amer- 
ica, i, 133-49; Woolman on, 228- 
30, 241-2, 272-3, 275 

French Money, Smith on, x, 33-4 

French^ Nation, Freeman on the, 
xxviii, 264-5, 266 

French Philosophers, xxxiv, i- 

315 
French Revolution, aristocrats in, 
xxiv, 431-2; army under, 358-71; 
assignats of, 269-71, 338-44, 383- 
90; church-lands sale, 271, 339- 
41; church property confiscated 
in, 253-69, 295-311; clergy in, 
287-9; clergy, civil constitution of 
the, 296-7; completeness of, 402; 
population and wealth, decline of, 
under, 280-2; executive power, 
constitution of, 347-54; lanati- 



GENERAL INDEX 



243 



cism and proselytism of, 301-2; 
finances of, 375-93; Goethe on, xix, 
334, 387-91; good of the, xxiv, 
395; gunpowder, making of, in, 
435 note; inconsistencies of, 371- 
4; invasion of Holland, 441; 
judicial power, constitution of, 
354-8; leaders of, 314-15; letters, 
men of, in, xxiv, 258-60, 433-4; 
Lowell on, xxviii, 447; Mill on, 
XXV, 45-6, 87, 205-6; mistakes of, 
xxiv, 183-8; monied interest in, 
257-8; municipal guards, 374-5; 
Napoleon on, xxviii, 482; Na- 
tional Assembly in, xxiv, 188-98, 
216-19, 312-14, 346-7, 371-4; no- 
bility in, 282-7, 440; October sixth 
and, 219-29; paper currency of, 
338-44, 383-90; Paris, preeminence 
of, in, 345-6; parliaments abol- 
ished by, 270; public debts, care 
of, 255-63; representation under, 
321-38; revenue system of, 375- 
93; Sheridan on, xviii, 104; 
spread of principles of, xxiv, 411- 
12; sympathy of English clubs 
with, 152-9; Washington's policy 
toward, xliii, 265 

French Revolution, Reflections 
ON THE, Burke's, xxiv, 149-397 

Frenzy, first of ills, viii, 13 

Fresh-water Productions, Darwin 
on, xi, 118-19; distribution of, 

427-31 
Frestron, the enchanter, xiv, 61, 66 
Fretting, David on, xliv, 190 (8) 
Freydis, daughter of Eric the Red, 

xliii, 6; in Vinland, 17-20 
Freyia, the goddess, xlix, 277 
Freyr, Germanic god, xlix, 14 note 2 
Friar, Chaucer's, xl, 17-18; Dryden 

on Chaucer's, xxxix, 172 
Friars, in Milton's Limbo, iv, 150; 

More on, xxxvi, 165 
Friars* Carse Hermitage, Inscrip- 
tion AT, vi, 550 
Friars* Carse Hermitage, Verses 

IN, vi, 325 
Friars* Carse Hermitage, Written 

IN, vi, 337 
Friction, chemical effects of, xxx, 
206-7; heat generated by, 59-60, 
205-6 
Friend, To a Distant, xli, 689-90 
Friends, Confucius on, xliv, 57 (4) ; 
Confucius on choice of, 6; Emer- 
son on love of, v, 158; faithful, 
rare, vii, 321 (2) ; falling out of 
faithful, xl, 204-6; forgiveness of, 
iii, 16; little, may prove great, 
xvii, 14; many, equal to none, 
41; no whit worse than brothers, 
xxii, 119; Pascal on advantage of, 
xlviii, 61 (155); Ruskin on im- 
possibility of choosing, xxviii, 99; 
Samson on, iv, 423; Shakespeare 



on, xlvi, 102; Shelley on false, 
xviii, 301; single men best, iii, 22 

Friends, Society of (see Quakers) 

Friends, Followers and, Essay on. 
Bacon's, iii, 125-6 

Friends and Land I Love, Frae 
the, vi, 445 

Friendship, Augustine, St., on false 
and true, vii, 55; Blair on, vi, 
175; Browne on, iii, 332-3; Burns 
on, vi, 189; Coleridge on, xli, 
720; Confucius on, xliv, 42 (2^); 
Confucius on false, 18 (24); Em- 
erson on, V, 203-4; Epictetus on 
true, ii, 148 (82); excess in, ix, 
330 and note; Goethe on, xxxix, 
265-6; xix, 394; Hume on, xxxvii, 
423; immortality of, i, 402 (127- 
34;; Kempis on true, vii, 318-19; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 7; Lothario on, 
xiv, 328-9; Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 
57; Manzoni on, xxi, 193; Marcus 
Aurelius on false, ii, 293 (15).; 
of parents and children, xxxvii, 
86-7; Pascal on, xlviii, 44, 45 
(loi); Penn on, i, 350-1; pity 
and, xxxiv, 193; seldom between 
equals, iii, 126; Shakespeare on, 
xlvi, 102; Swift on, xxvii, 97; 
toast to, xli, 595; Tzu-chang on, 
xliv, 65 (3) 

Friendship, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

69-75 
Friendship, Essay on, Emerson's, 

V, 109-23 
Friendship, Essay on, Montaigne's, 

xxxii, 74-88; remarks on, 3 
Friendship, Sonnet on, xiv, 251 
Friendship, Treatise on, Cicero's, 

ix, 7-44 
Friesshardt, in Wilhelm Tell, 

xxvi, 424-8, 454-5 
Frigate-bird, Darwin on the, xi, 189, 

190 
Frights, Locke on, xxxvii, 104, 124-6 
Fringing-reefs, Darwin on, xxix, 

497-503 
Frisians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 115 
Frivolousness, Confucius on, xliv, 

5 (8) 
Frobisher, John, Harrison on, xxxv, 

338 
Frobisher, Martin, death of, xxxiii, 

235; with Drake, 234, 2:^7, 248, 

253-4, 264; northwest passage and, 

270 
Froda, xlix, 62 note, 63 note 
Frog, story of, who became a god, 

xiv, 722-3 
Frog and Mouse, fable of, xx, 95 

note 
Frog and Ox, fable of, xvii, 19 
Frog-King, tale of the, xvii, 51-4 
Frogs, in Brazil, xxix, 39-40;^ hearts 

in, xxxviii, 88; in oceanic islands, 

xi, 435-6; snakes and, xxxv, 364; 

on volcanic islands, xxix, 404-5 



244 



GENERAL INDEX 



Frogs, The, of Aristophanes, viii, 

4ig'66; remarks on, 418 
Frogs and Hares, fable of, xvii, 16 
Frogs Desiring a King, fable of, 

xvii, 15 
Froissart, Jean, Battle of Otter- 
burn, XXXV, 3-4; Battle of Poi- 
tiers, 34-60; Campaign of Crecy, 
5-33; Chronicles of, remarks on, 
1, 22; on the English, v, 394; lite 
and works, xxxv, 3-4; Montaigne 
on, xxxii, loo-i; in Scotland, xxxv, 
89-90; Wat Tyler's Rebellion, 
61-82 
Fronde, Pascal on the, xlviii, 311 

(878) 
Frondeurs, the, xxxiv, 88 note 
Frontinus, Roman lawyer, ix, 273 
Fronto, teacher of Marcus Aurelius, 

ii, 192, 195 (11) 
Frosch, in Faust, xix, 79-94 
Froth, in New Way to Pay Old 

Debts, xlvii, 819-23, 876-9 
Frothingham, Ellen, translator of 

Goethe, xix, 333 
Frugal, Master, in New Way to 

Pay Old Debts, xlvii, 836 
Frugality, Bacon on, iii, 75-6; eco- 
nomically considered, x, 278-9; 
Franklin on, i, 89, 95-6; Frank- 
lin's rule of, 83, 8s; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 387; motives of, x, 282, 
283; Penn on, i. 344 
Fruits, beauty of, reason for, xi, 
211-12; cultivation of, in Eliza- 
bethan England, xxxv, 254; fer- 
mentation of, xxxviii, 289, 325; 
fermentation of, in carbonic acid 
gas, 317-28; as gifts, v, 229-30; 
importance of down and color of, 
xi, 98; Locke on eating of, xxxvii, 
21-2; ripening of, xxxviii, 321 
Fruits of Solitude, Penn*s, i, 331- 

416 
Fucci, Vanni, in Hell, xx, 103-4 
Fuegians, Darwin on the, xi, 50; 
xxix, 219-24, 227-22, 234-9, 241-6, 
250 
Fucntes, Darwin on, xxix, 13-14 
Fugger, commercial house of, xxxvi, 

301 note, 349 
Fugitive Slave Act, xliii, 327-33 
Fugitive Slaves, constitutional pro- 
vision for, xliii, 203; Lincoln on, 
335-6, 341; Whittier on, xlii, 
1421-4 
Fugitives, usually single men, iii, 22 
Fulgentio, and Dr. Donne, xv, 362 
Fullarton, Col., vi, 184 note 9, 185, 

190 
Fuller's Teazel, xi, 45 
Fulvia, wife of Antony, xviii, 45; 
xii, 341-2; Cicero ana, 238; death 
of, 357; Octavius and, 354, 357; 
son of, 403 
Fulvius, and Ennius, xxvii, 39-40 
Functions, conversion of, xi, 195-7 



Fundamental Orders of Connec- 
ticut, xliii, 6^-9 
Fundanus, daughter of, ix, 286-7 
Fundevogel, story of, xvii, 149-51 
Funding, system of, x, 580, 584-5 

(see National Debt) 
Funeral, The, xl, 310-11 
Funerals, in ancient Egypt, xxxiii, 

42-4; German, no; Indian, xliii, 

36;^ in Utopia, xxxvi, 242 
Fungi, Pasteur on, xxxviii, 310, 313 

and note 
Fungus, edible, in Tierra del Fuego, 

xxix, 252 
Fur, thickness of, to what due, xi, 

146 
Furies, JEschylus on the, viii, 117, 

127-9, 152; Dante on the, xx, 38; 

De Quincey on the, xxvii, 336-7; 

Emerson on, v, 97; Virgil on the, 

xiii, 425 
Furies, The, of ^schylus, viii, 115- 

55; Voltaire on, xxxix, 382 
Furnace, in New Way to Pay Old 

Debts, xlvii, 825-8, 830-1, 832, 

834* 835, 840-1, 842, 844-6, 880, 

897 

Furnius, and Antony, xii, 381 

Furnivall, Dr., xxxv, 228 

Fiirst, Walter, in Wilhelm Tell, 
friend of Stauffacher, xxvi, 380; 
Melchthal and, 385-6, 390; with 
Stauffacher, 386-8; begins revolt, 
391-4; at the rendezvous, 405-14; 
with Tell at Altdorf, 427-35; at 
death of Attinghausen, 442-7; with 
Rudenz, 448-50; at destruction of 
Keep, 460-3; hears death of Em- 
peror, 463-7; in final scene, 474 

Furuncles, Pasteur on, xxxviii, 390-4 

Fusconi, Francesco, xxxi, 171 note, 

^ i73-5» 177 

Fuscus, letter to, ix, 370, 373 

Fusella, Ambrogio, in The Be- 
trothed, xxi, 246-7, 256-7 

Future, Confucius on knowledge of 
the, xliv, 9 (2^); Hobbes on the, 
xxxiv, 333; Kempis on care of 
the, vii, 305 (2, 3); Milton on fore- 
knowledge of the, iv, 342; Pascal 
on the, xlviii, 362; Pascal on our 
care for, 64 (172); past to, rea- 
sonings from, xxxvii, 335; Pope 
on blindness to, xl, 420; uncer- 
tainty of the, xxxix, loi, 102; 
veil of the, v, 146-7; worry over 
the, ii, 123 (19), 246 (8) 

Future Life (see Immortality, Here' 
after) 

Future Peace and Glory of the 
Church, xIv, 576 

Fyers, Fall of. Lines on the, vi, 
296 

Gabinia, Lex, Cicero on, ix, 23 

Gabinius, Aulus, campaigns of, xii, 
335-6; Cicero and, 252; in Civil 
War, 339; Crassus and, ix, 133; 



GENERAL INDEX 



245 



return to Rome* 122; suit against, 
119-20; Syria given to, xii, 251 
Gabriel, Archangel, song of, in 
Faust, xix, i6; in Luke's gospel, 
xliv, 358 (i9» 26-38); Mohammed 
and, xlv, 908 note; Gabriel in 
Paradise Lost, iv, 171, 172, 177, 
179-83, 208, 216, 295; in Paradise 
Regained, iv, 366 
Gabriel, in Evangewne (see Lajeu- 

nesse) 
Gadarenes, xliv, 380 note 5 
Gaddi, Agnolino, xxxi, 1^4, 135 
Gaddi, Cardinal de', xxxi, 2 10- 11 
Gaddi, Giovanni, xxxi, loi note 4, 

116, 139-40, 167, 171-3, 175 
Gaddi, Niccolo, xxxi, t^ note 
Gaia, daughter of Gherardo, xx, 214 

note 10 

Gain, Confucius on pursuit of, xliv, 

12, 58 (10); Penn on thirst for, 

i» 351 i^2i), 361 (252); Smith on 

hope of, X, 113-14; Tennyson on 

lust of, xlii, 1053 

Gaius, friend of Paul, xliv, 474 (29), 

475 (4); baptism of, xlv, 502 (14) 

Gaius, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

266-78 
Galahad, Sir, in Holy Grail, at 
Abblasoure, xxxv, 130; Arthur 
and, 115, 120, 222\ bed of, 196-9; 
birth of, Ii4-i5> ii7, 120, 160; 
Bors and, 218; buried at Sarras, 
207; adventure of burning tomb, 
217-18; at castle of Carbonek, 218- 
19; at castle of Carteloise, 200- 
3; at court, 113; death, 22^-5; 
Gawaine and, 164, 188-9; at abbey 
of Gore, 217; Guenever and, 119- 
20; sees hart and four lions, 203-4; 
Holy Grail and, 108, 219-21; made 
king, 224; knighting of, iio-ii; 
Launcelot and, 134-5, 209-11; at 
castle of Maidens, 130-2, 134; Sir 
Melias and, 126-7, 128-9; Mor- 
drains and, 216-17; at Mortaise, 
151; at parting of the roads, 127; 
Percival and, 134-5, 145, 208, 218; 
prayer for death, 222-3; thrown 
into prison, 223-4; at Sarras, 223; 
shield of, 122-5; led to ship of 
Faith, 190-2; Siege Perilous and, 
114; at castle of strange cus- 
tom, 204-8; sword of, 192-6, 199- 
200; adventure of the tomb, 125- 
6; at tourney, 117; at hermitage 
of Ulfin, 189-90; virginity of, 168, 
217; and queen of Waste Lands, 
142; at the well, 217; at the 
White Abbey, 121 
Galahad, Sir, by Tennyson, xlii, 

1036-8 

Galaor, Don, mistress of, xiv, 103-4 

Galapagos Archipelago, Darwin on, 

xxix, 394-424; health conditions 

in, 387; species of, xi, 433, 439*44 



Galatea, in Philaster, xlvii, 640-1; 
Arethusa and, 661-2; at the hunt, 
684, 686, 687-90; Pharamond and, 
657-9, 660-1, 663-4; on Philaster, 
646, 647 

Galaxy, Milton on, iv, 244 (see also 
Milky Way) 

Galba, Emperor, death of, iii, 10; 
empire foretold to, 96; speech of, 
43; Tacitus on, 32 

Galdino, Father, in I Promessi 
Sposi, xxi, 50-2, 310-12 

Galeazzo, de' Visconti, xx, 179 notes 
5 and 7 

Gale-Jones, Mill and, xxv, 83 ^^ 

Galen, on the arteries, xxxviii, 69, 
70, 71-2, 8s, 94; on the blood, 
93-4; Browne on, iii, 278 (14); 
on the circulation, xxxviii, 102- 
5; on the heart, 87, 144; Hux- 
ley on, xxviii, 22^% immortality 
doubted by, iii, 285-6; ostentation 
of, 134; on the pulse, xxxviii, 68, 

73 
Galesus, in -^neid, xiii, 2^2 
Galfridus, on Arthur, xxxix, 22 
Galileo, Emerson on, v, 70, 86; 
heliocentric theory and, xxxix, 55 
note; the Inquisition and, xxxiv, 
113; Milton on, iii, 226; on tides, 
XXX, 294; "Tuscan artist," iv, 97 
Galitta, case of, ix, 309 
Galla Water, Braw Lads o', vi, 481 
Galland, Antoine, translator of Ara- 
bian Nights, xvi, 3 
Gallant Weaver, The, vi, 437 
Gallatin, Albert, in Treaty of 18 14, 

xliii, 2TZ 

Galleotti, Pietro Pagolo, xxxi, 164 

note 7, 167, 181, 2TZy ^77* ^78, 

279, 289, 291, 317, 350, 36J, 

366 

Galleys, of the Germans, xxxiii, 121 

Gallinazo, Darwin on the, xxix, 69- 

70 
Gallio, proconsul of Achaia, xliv, 

471 (12-17) . 
Gallipoli, description of, xxvui, 56 
Galloway, Earl of. Epigrams on, 

vi, 496-7 
Gallura, Nino di, in Purgatory, xx, 

178-9; Ugolino and, 138 note 
Gallus, Cornelius, Cicero on, ix, 64; 

death of, xxxii, 14; Laelius on, ix, 

10 
Gallus, Flavins, xii, 368, 369 
Gallus, M. Fadius, letter to, ix, 109 
Gallus, friend of Pliny, letters to, 

ix, 231, 345 , . ^ 

Galluzzi, Bernardo, xxxi, 261-2 
Galuppi's, a Toccata of, xlii, 1122 
Galvanic Batteries, xxx, 214 
Gama, Vasco de, x, 417 
Gamaliel, xliv, 440 (34-9) ; Paul and, 

480 (3) 
Gambler, James, Lord, xliii, 2yz 
Gambling., Blake on, xii, 604; Locke 



246 



GENERAL INDEX 



on, xxxvii, i88; Pascal on pleas- 
ure of, xlviii, 55-6 
Gambling Laws, Mill on,^ xxv, 308-9 
Games, five, of skill, xii, 75 note; 

in Utopia, xxxvi, 190-1 
Gandaline, squire of Amadis, xiv, 
173; sonnet to Sancho Panza, 17 
Ganelon, in Charlemagne's Council, 
xlix, 103, 104; sent to King 
Marsil, 106-9; death of, 206-7, 
146; embassy and crime, 110-23, 
125, 127; in Hell, xx, 136 note 
12; Marsil and, xlix, 106-9; 
Roland and, 133, i37» i50» 163-4; 
trial of, 198, 199-202 
Ganges, Harrison on, xxxv, 246 
Ganymede, and Jove, xiii, 190; xx, 

182 
Garba, Pedro, xiv, 515 
Garcia, Diego, xiv, 319 
Garden, A, by Marvell, xl, 379 
Garden of Delight, Harun Er- 

Rashid's, xvi, 220-2 
Garden, The Dying Man in His, 

xli, 493-4 
Garden, A Forsaken, xln, 1255-7 
Garden, My, by Brown, xlii, 1195 
Garden, parable of the, xv, 207-8 
Garden of Paradise^ The, xvii, 298- 

312 
Garden of Proserpine, xlii, 125 1-3 
Garden, Thoughts in a, xl, 386-8 
Gardening, Locke on, xxxvii, 186-7 
Gardens, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 117- 

23. 4 
Gardens, kitchen. Smith on, x, 162- 

3; proportion in, xxiv, 86; in 

Utopia, xxxvi, 186-7 
Gardiner wi' His Paidle, vi, 360 
Gareth, Sir, xxxv, 132, 133; xxxix, 

24-5 . . ^ , 

Garget, superstition of the, xxxv, 

328 
Garland, Hugo on, xxxix, 400 
Garnett, on The Prince, xxxvi, 3-4 
Garret, John, and Drake, xxxiii, 136 
Garrick, David, epitaph on, xxvii, 
313; Goldsmith on, xli, 518, 520; 
as Hamlet, xxvii, 318; Hazlitt on, 
289-90; Lamb on, 322-3; Pro- 
logues by, xviii, 109-10, 201-2 
Garrison, William Lloyd, Mill on, 

xxv, 171 
Garter, Order of the, xxxv, 233-4 
Gartner, Joseph, on sterility of 
hybrids, xi, 300-1 ; on mongrels 
and hybrids, 327, 328; on pre- 
potency, III ; on reciprocal crosses, 
308; on sterility of species, 299, 
314, 322; on varieties, 325-26 
Gas, cause of brightness of illumi- 
nating, XXX, 114 
Gasabel, squire of Don Galaor, xiv, 

173 
Gascoigne, George, Lover's LuI/I«a- 
BY« xl, 198 



Gascony, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 9- 
10 

Gases, expansion of, Joule on, xxx, 
208-9; expansion of, measurement 
of, 198-9; transparency of, 43; 
vapors and, difference of, 105; 
volume of, 42; weighing, method 
of, 151-2 

Gathering Song of Donald the 
Black, xli, 762-3 

Gatta, II, Cellini on, xxxi, 317 

Gattinara, Giovanni Bartolommeo di, 
xxxi, 215 note, 216 

Gauchos, character of, xxix, 169- 
70; riding skill of, 166 

Gaudry, M., on fossils, xi, 378 

Gaufred, and Richard, xl, 48-9 

Gaul, Caesar's campaigns in, xii, 
289-98 

Gauls, risings of, repeated, xxxvi, 
18; in Rome, xiii, 294; Tacitus on, 
xxxiii. III 

Gautama, Siddhartha, xiv, 588 

Gaveston, in Edward II, banish- 
ment, xlvi, 14-18; conspiracies 
against, 11-13, 31; Coventry and, 
lo-ii; Edward and, 9-11, 14, 15, 
17-19, 29, 30, 35, 37; flight and 
capture, 39-42; historically, 3; 
preparations for marriage, 35; 
Mortimer and, 25, 35; nobles and, 
7-9, 14; return, 29-30; Spencer 
and, 26; in Tynemouth, 36, 37; 
Warwick and, 42-3 

Gawaine, Sir, in Holy Grail, meets 
Aglovale, xxxv, 134; nephew of 
Arthur, 115; Bagdemagus and, 
216; dream of, 164-5, 168; Gala- 
had and, 132-3, 189; Guenevere 
and, xlii, 1230, 1232, 1235-6, 1239; 
at hermitage, xxxv, 133-4; Holy 
Grail and, 118, 120, 164, 166; 
mother of, xlii, 1235; at Nacien, 
167-71; return home, 216; meets 
Seven Knights, 133; skull of, 
xxxix, 22 ; and the sword, xxxv, 
112-13; Uwaine and, 166-7 

Gay, John, Addison and, xxvii, 186- 
7; Eclogues of, xxxix, 339; Haz- 
litt on, xxvii, 292; Poems by, xl, 
412-13; Swift and, xxviii, 15 

Gay Goss-Hawk, The, xl, 70-3 

Gay-Lussac, on fermentation, xxxviii, 

314 
Gazehounds, Harrison on, xxxv, 

369 
Gazelle, The Sheykh and tIie, xvi, 

20-3 
Geary, General, at Gettysburg, xliii, 

385 
Geese, of Falkland Islands, xxix, 

214-15; Harrison on, xxxv, 354 
Gehenna, Hinnom called, iv, 100 
Geikie, Sir Archibald, Geographi- 
cal Evolution, xxx, 339-67; life 
and works, 338 



GENERAL INDEX 



247 



Gellius, Aulus, on classics, xxxii, 

126 
Gellius, Lucius, xii, 247 
Gellius, Marcus, Cicero on, xii, 248-9 
Gelon, gift of, xii, 166; Macaulay 

on, xxvii, 418 
Gemellinus, Virdius, ix, 393 
Gemini, sign of, Dante on, xx, 382 

note 8 
Geminius, and Antony, xii, 381-2 
Geminius, friend of Pliny, ix, 324, 

353, 385 ^ .„ , . 

Genera, formation of, illustrated, xi, 
127, 132; in geological record, 
367-8, 354-9; large, vary most, 71- 
2; species in, resemble each other, 

73-4 . „ 

General Principles, Hume on, xxxvii, 

314 

Generalization, Bacon on, xxxix, 
140; Bentham on, xxvii, 257-9; 
Emerson on, v, 157-9; Hume on, 
xxxvii, 395 (6), 438 note 

Generation, alternate, xi, 478; artifi- 
cial, in New Atlantis, iii, 184; 
death and, xxxviii, 89; economic 
aspect of, X, 83; Heraclitus on, 
ii, 221 (46); Marcus Aurelius on, 
215 (4, 5)> 228 (13); passions of, 
xxiv, 37, 38-9; Socrates on, ii, 
60-1 ; spontaneous, Harrison on, 
XXXV, 365 

Genesis, Bagehot on, xxviii, 211; 
Browne on, iii, 299; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 357; Milton on events of, 
iv, 333 et seq. ; selection, principle 
of, in, xi, 48 

Geneva, Lake, sedimentary deposits 
in, xxxviii, 422-3 

Genii, ancient belief in, v, 310; 
species of different, xvi, 9 note 

Genitor, Julius, letters to, ix, 249, 
360 

Genius, Carlyle on, xxv, 336-7; col- 
leges and, V, 439-40; Emerson on, 
10, 63, 139, 148-51, 178, 274, 292; 
excesses and, 181; freedom req- 
uisite to, xxv, 270; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 384, 388, 406; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 279 (793) ; penalty of, v, 
92-3; Poe on, xxviii, 385; recogni- 
tion of, V, 205; Sainte-Beuve on, 
xxxii, 130; Schiller on, 250; talent 
and, v, 172; Thoreau on, xxviii, 
426; trade and, v, 47, 193; tragedy 
of, 54; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 
350 

Genius in Beauty, xlii, ,1226 

Gens, nature of the, xxviii, 255 

Gentilesse, Chaucer on, v, 182-3; 
Emerson on word, 209 

Gentility, Emerson on word, v, 209; 
in English drama, 125 

Gentillis, Albericus, at Oxford, v, 
433 

Genti,eman, Lines to a, vi, 397 



Gentlemen, Chi Tzu-ch'eng on, xliv, 
39 (8); Confucius on, 5 (i), 8 
(12, 13, 14), 10 (7), 13 (5, 10, 
11), 14 (16, 24), 16, (15), 19 
(3), 20 (16), 21 (24), 24 (25), 

25 (36), 28 (6), 29 (13), 39 (4, 
11), 14 (16, 24), 16 (15), 19 
26), 47 (7), 49 (24), 50 (29), 51 
(45), 52 (i), 54 (17-22), 55 (31, 
33, 36), 57 (7, 8), 58 (10), 62 
(23^ 24), 69 (2, 3); Emerson on, 
V, 208-11, 218-19, 220-1; Locke 
on making of, xxxvii, 76, 82; 
Newman on education of, xxviii, 
34; Pascal on, xlviii, 18 (35), 25 
(68); Ruskin on production of, 
xxviii, 137-8; Tseng-tzu on, xliv, 

26 (4, 6), 42 (24), 50 (28)- Tzu- 
hsia on, 66 (9, 10, 12); Yu-tzu 
on, 5 (2) 

Gentleness, Ecclesiastes on, xliv, 

352 (4) ; manliness of, ii, 295 
Gentry, Burns^ on the, vi, 160-.1, 

247; Confucius on example of, 

xliv, 25 (2) ; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

382 
Gentucca, Dante on, xx, 245, 274 

note 3 
Genus (see Genera) 
Geoffrey of Anjou, in Song of 

Roland, xlix, 100, 191, 193-4 
Geoffrey of Monmouth, on Arthur, 

xxxii, 163; chronicle of, 168; 

legend of Lear in, xlvi, 202 
Geographical Changes, Darwin on, 

xi, 404-5 
Geographical Distribution, xi, 395- 

449; in classification, 457 
Geographical Evolution, by Geikie, 

XXX, 337-67 
Geography, Geikie on study of, xxx, 

339-41 ; geology, relations to, 341- 

2; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 377; Hume 

on, xxxvii, 444; Locke on study 

of, 147, 157, 164-5, 166-7; Milton 

on study of, iii, 253 
Geological Evolution, Geikie on, 

xxx, 338, 342-67 
Geological Formations, age of, xxx, 

350-1; Darwin on, xi, 347-9; Lyell 

on, xxxviii, 419-37 
Geological Record, Darwin on the, 

xi, 333-94; Lyell on imperfections 

in, xxxviii, 420-37 
Geology, Emerson on, v, 239, 307; 

Geikie on importance of, xxx, 341- 

2; Lyell on, xi, 109; xxxviii, 404, 

440; papers on, 403-40; species, 

theory of, in relation to, xi, 526-7 
Geology, Progress of, Lyell's, 

xxxviii, 405-18 
Geometrical Spirit, Pascal on the, 

xlviii, 427-44 
Geometry, beginning of, xxxiii, 53; 

Descartes on, xxxiv, 16, 17, 19, 

31; Descartes's work on, 3, 114, 



248 



GENERAL INDEX 



127; Hobbes on, 339, 377; Hume i 

on, xxxvii, 324, 329, 437-8 note; 

Locke on study of, 148, 164, 166; 

Newton on, xxxix, 157-8; Pascal 

on, xlviii, 27-8, 416, 428, 429 note, 

431, 434-8 
George, St., Carlyle on, xxv, 438; 

Emerson on, v, 407 
George II, and Pitt, xxiv, 349 
Seorge III, and American Colonies, 

xliii, 161-3, 185; Burns to, vi, 217- 

220 
George IV, debauchery of, v, 428; 

picture ships of, 312 
George, Henry, Lowell on, xxviii, 

483 
George Campbell, Bonnie, xl, 115- 

16 ^ ^ 
Georgia, island of, vegetation in, 

xxix, 265 
Georgia, State of, settlement of, i, 

Geraint, saint of Brittany, xxxii, 

169 
Geraldine, in Christabel, xli, 728- 

44 
Gerard, in A Blot in the *Scutch- 

EON, xviii, 357-8, 360, 374-7 
Gerard of Roussillon, xlix, 125, 167, 

178 
Gerard, Balthazar, murderer of Wil- 
liam of Orange, iii, 103 
Gereia, in Roland, xlix, 100, 103, 

125, 141, i45» 155. 178 
Ger^onne, M., Mill on, xxv, 42 
Gen of Bello, in Hell, xx, 121 

note 
Gerier, in Song of Roland, xlix, 

100, 103, 125, 141, 14^, 155, 178 
Germ Theory, Pasteur s, xxxviii, 

382-402 
German Empire, Freeman on the, 

xxviii, 268-9; language as factor 

in forming of, 265 ^ 
German Essays, xxxii, 195-395 
German Nobility, Address to, 

Luther's, xxxvi, 274-352; remarks 

<^n, 260 
German Language, Huxley on study 

of, xxviii, 229 
German Literature, established by 

Luther, xxxvi, 260; in 19th cen- 
tury, xxxix, 452; Taine on, 

461 
German Philosophy, Carlyle on, xxv, 

369 
Germanic Peoples, works dealing 

with early, 1, 20-1, 27 
Germanic Races, Taine on, xxxix, 

444, 448, 455 
Germanicus, Caesar, hatred of cocks, 

xxxii, 59; descent and children 

of, xii, 403; in Germany, xxxiii, 

117 . 
Germanicus, Caius (see Caligula) 
Germans, agriculture of, xxxiii, 103- 

4, no, 122, 123; arms and prac- 



and 



ticesof war, 98,99101,102, 103,112- 

13, 117, 120, 121, 122; assemblies 
of, 101-2; bathing of ancient, cold, 
xxxvii, 13*14; boats of , xxxiii, 121; 
Caesar s campaign against the, xii, 
290-1, 203-4; chastity of, xxxiii, 
106; children of, 106-7; coats of 
arms among, xxxiv, 382-3; crimes, 
penalties of, xxxiii, 102, 107; 
dances and games, 109; divination 
among, 100-1; dress of, 105, 117; 
Emerson on, v, 351, ^55, 387-8; 
family ties and hospitality, xxxiii, 
107-8; feasts, broils, and recon- 
ciliations, 108; food and drink, 
109; funerals^ among, no; gifts, 
their delight in, 104, 108; habita- 
tions of, 104-5; heroes and battle- 
songs, p6; inheritance, laws of, 
107; kings and generals, 98*9, 
121; lands, herds, and use of 
metals, 97^8, no, 122; life, dailj^, 
108; marriage among, 105-6; ori- 
gin of, 95; physical character of, 
97; priesthood, power of, among, 
98-9; princes among the, 102-4; 
purity of race, 97; queen among, 
only, 122; religion of the, 100, 
1 1 8- 1 9, 120, 12 1 -2; Romans and, 
II 6-1 7; seasons of, no; slavery 
among, 109-10; slavery among, 
Harrison on, xxxv, 239; Taine 
on, xxxix, 440, 44^, 448; time, 
reckoning of, xxxiii, 101; tribes 
and name of, 95-6, 111-23; usury 
unknown to, no; village chiefs, 
102; women, 99-100, 105 

Germany, classes in, v, 379; Emer- 
son on science of, 456, 461* geog- 
raphy of, xxxiii, 95, 97; Luther 
on temporal state of, xxxvi, 348- 
51; Machiavelli on cities of, 38; 
monasteries in, 331; papal power 
in, 290-6, 303, 308-11, 332-3> 343- 
7; pilgrimages m, 325-6; Romans 
in, xxxiii, 116-17 

Germany, by Tacitus, xxxiii, 95-123; 
remarks on, 94 

Germs, defined by Pasteur, xxxviii, 
359-60 

Gerson, Jean de, as author of Imi- 
tation OF Christ, vii, 208 

Gertrude, the Signora, in The Be- 
trothed, xxi, 144-82, 308-9, 339- 
40, 646 

Gertrude, Queen, in Hamlet, Clau- 
dius and, xlvi, 93, 96-7; death, 
197; Hamlet and, 94-5, 96,^153-9; 
Laertes and, 169-70; Ophelia and, 
134, 166-7; at Ophelia's funeral, 
185, 186, 187; at the play, 141, 
145, 146; with Polonius, 119-21 

Gertrude, in Wilhelm Tell, xxvi, 
377-80 

Gertrude of Wyoming, Mill on, xxv, 

17 
Gervase, in The Betrothed, xxi, 



I 



GENERAL INDEX 



249 



97, ii3"iS» ii8, 120, 122, 124, 
130, 191 

Gervais of Tilbury, xxxii, 160 note 8 

Gervasius, the martyr, vii, 153 

Geryon, monster, Dante on, xx, 71- 
2, 74; Virgil on, xiii, 221, 266 

Gessler, in Wilhelm Tell, Arm- 
gart and, xxvi, 455-7; cap of, 383, 
462; death of, 458-9; Rudenz and, 
432-3; Stauffacher and, 378-9,414; 
Tell and, 418-9, 428-36, 438, 440, 
450-3, 457; tyranny of, 379 

Get Up and Bar the Door, a bal- 
lad, xl, 88-9 

Gettysburg, Battle of, xliii, 347- 
440 

Gettysburg Address, Lincoln's, xliii, 
441 

Ghent, Treaty of, xlni, 273-82 

Gherardeschi, Ugolino de*, xx, 138- 
40 

Ghibellines, Dante on, xx, 3 1 o note 23 ; 
in Florence, 68 note i ; friends of 
Papacy, 308 note 7; Guelfs and 
(see numerous notes to Divine 
Comedy) 

Ghirlandajo, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 293, 

29s 
Ghosts, Browne on, lii, 303; Burke 
on fear of, xxiv, 52; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 329, 302; Locke on, xxxvii, 
124-6, 175;^ Milton on, iv, 58-9; 
Pliny on, ix, 326-9; Socrates on, 

", 74 
Ghuleh, The Prince and the, xv:, 

39-40 
Gianciotto, Lord of Rimini, xx, 24 

note 3 
Giangiacomo of Cesena, xxxi, 41-2 
Gianotti, Gianotto, xxxi, 27 
Giants, Burke on, xxiv, 133; in 
Dante *s Hell, xx, 130-3; in Mil- 
ton's Limbo, iv, 140 
Gibbon, Edward, Carlyle on, v, 334; 
on changes in human affairs, 
xxxviii, 413; style of, v, 22; on 
Tacitus, xxxiiif 94; Wordsworth 
on, v, 483 
Gibbon, General John, at Gettys- 
burg, xliii, 347 note, 353, 35 7» 
358, 367, 37^* 372, 375, 381, 382, 
384* 391, 393» 394, 395» 399, 400- 
I, 403, 404, 405, 415, 428, 431-2 
Gibeah, the Levite woman in, iv, 

103 
Giberti, Gianmatteo, xxxi, 102 note 
Giddiness, defined, xxxiv, 367 
Gideon, Locke on, xxxvii, 187; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 387, 425; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 289 (822), 303 
Giese, Tidemann, xxxix, 56 
Gifford, George, with Raleigh, xxxiii, 

325, 347, 349, 354» 357. 363. 369* 

^ 377, 382, 386 ^ 

Gifts, Burns on, vi, 200; among the 
Germans, xxxiii, 108; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 378, 410, 411, 412; Kcmpis 



on, vii, 275 (4); Krishna on, xiv, 
875; in law, xxxiv, 410, 411, 412; 
Penn on, i, 340 (20) ; Plutarch on 
accepting, xii, 80-1; Shakespeare 
on, xlvi, 136; Stella's definition 
of, xxvii, 137; Woolman on, i, 
209; worth of, lies in giver, xlv, 
821 
Gifts, by Thomson, xlii, 1 195-6 
Gifts, Emerson's Essay on, v, 229" 

32 

Gifts, Her, by Rossetti, xlii, 1227-8 

Gila River, navigation of, xliii, 315 

Gilbert, Sir Humphfey, life of, xxxiii, 

270; Spaniards, expeditions against, 

310; Voyage to Newfoundland, 

271-308; remarks on voyage of, 

234 
Gilbert, Sir John, xxxiii, 306, 349, 



^ 363, 369. 
Gildas, 



and the bards, xxxii, 176 
Giles, St., on Archbishop Turpin, 
xlix, 175 

Giles, Peter, on More's Utopia, 

xxxvi, 144, 255-7 
Giliolo, Girolamo; xxxi, 280, 282 
Gill, ^ Mr., on changes of drainage, 

xxix, 379-80 
Gilpin, John, Diverting History 

of, xli, 559-67 
Gines, of Passamonte, xiv, 192-3, 

195, 196, 199-200, 303 
Ginn, Mohammed on the, xlv, 910 
Ginori, Federigo, xxxi, 89-90, 95 
Giotto, Dante on, xx, 191 note 4; 

Hazlitt on, xxvii, 293, 295 
Giovanna, Queen of Naples, xxxvi, 

Giovanni, Pier, xxxi, 127 

Gipsies, Browne on, iii, 32^ 
Giraffe, development of, xi, 230-3; 

tail of, 206 
Giraldus Cambrensis, narratives of, 

xxxii, 186 
Girdle, On a, xl, 366-7 
Girl Without Hands, The, xvii, 

123-8 
Girls, Confucius on, xliv, 62 ,(25); 

Locke on training of, xxxvii, 11, 

14-15, 54; Ruskin on education 

of, xxviii, 151-61 
Giuki, King, xlix, 331, 334, 335; 

daughter of, ^18, 331 
Giukings (see Niblungs) 
Giulio, value of the, xxxi, 163 note 3 
Give All to Love, xlii, 1295-6 
Give Me More Love, xl, 362 
Give Me the Splendid Silent 

Sun, xlii, 1494-6 
Giver, "God loveth a cheerful," xlv, 

Glacial Period, Darwin on, xi, 417- 
19; distribution of life, effect of, 
on, 411-17, 422-6; in Europe, XXX, 
365; species, effect of, on, xxxviii, 

427 
Glaciers, of the Alps, xxx, 224; ap- 



250 



GENERAL INDEX 



Eearance of, 22S-zz\ bending and 
ursting of, explained, 241-50; 
boulders, distribution of, by, 237- 
9, 240-1 ; cause of, 224-5 ; cre- 
vasses in (see Crevasses) ; Darwin 
on, xxix, 262-4; dirt-bands of, 
XXX, 239; extent of former, 240- 
1 ; longitudinal rifts explained, 
249; movement of, 2ZZ-7y origin 
of name, 225; purity of waters 
from, 252; effect of, on rocks, 
240; structure of ice of, 251-2; 
temperature of, 243; utility of, 
252-3 

Gladstone, and free trade, xxv, S-ji 
on King of Naples, v, 288 

Glass, discovery of, xxxv, 3 10- 11 

Glaucus,^ Dante on, xx, 289; death 
of, xiii, 407; in. Hades, 227 \ 

Glaumoor, wife of Gunnar, xlix, 
365, 367, 368 

Gleichen, Baron de, xxv, 232 note 4 

Glencairn, Earl of, Lament for, 
vi, 424 

Glendowyn, Simon, at Otterburn, 
xxxv, 95, 102 

Glengariff, by De Vere, xli, 936-7 

Gl.ENRIDDELL*S FoX, On, vi, 432 

Glibness, Confucius on, xliv, 15 (4), 



^Z7 (24)» 50 (34), S3 (10), 57(4) 
Gloomy Winters Now Awa*, xli, 

608-9 
Gloria in Excelsis, xlv, 553 
Glories of Our Blood and State, 

xl, 359-60 
Glory, Bj^ron on, xli, 809-10; Hobbes 
on desire for, xxxiv, 404^; Kempis 
on, vii, 254 (2), 317 (5); Milton 
on, iv, 381, 389-92; Pascal on 
love of, xlviii, 60 (150-1), 113 
(324), 132 (404); "paths of," xl, 
456; Pliny on, ix, 203; Plutarch 
on desire of, xii, 253; Tennyson 
on, xlii, 1039; Walton on, xv, 
369; Webster on, xlvii, 786 
Glosses, Luther on, xxxvi, 298 
Gloucester, Earl of, in King Lear, 
blinded, xlvi, 264; Cornwall and, 
263-4; 265-6; Edgar and, 204, 258, 
267-9, 276-9, 283-5, 291, 298; Ed- 
mund and, 203-4; 213-15, 230-3; 
253, 259; Kent and, 234, 235, 
237-8; Lear and, 241-2, 248, 253, 
257-8, 259, 262, 279-81; Oswald 
and, 283-4 
Glub, Charles, xxxiii, 169 
Gluttony, Dante's punishment of, 
XX, 25-6, 240-2; examples of, 247; 
Kempis on punishment of, vii, 
242 (3) ; sin of, in Faustus, xix, 
221 
Glycerin, production of, xxx, 91 
Glynn, The Marshes of, xlii, 

1470-3 
Gmelin, on independent creations, 
xi« 412 



Gnadenhut, Franklin fortifies, i, 146- 
8; massacre at, 145 

Gnatho, Sidney on, xxvii, 20, 29 

Gnomon, learned from Babylon, 
xxxiii, 53 

Go, Lovely Rose, xl, z^7 

Go On, Sweet Bird, and Sooth 
My Care, vi, 310 

Goat and Fox, fable of, xvii, 46 

Goatherd, in Don Quixote, xiv, 525- 
30 

Goats, sacred to Mendesians, xxxiii, 
28 

Goblet, Inscription on a, vi, 548 

Goblins, Burke on fear of, xxiv, 52; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 124-6, 175 

God, Aristotle on, xxxix, no; 
Augustine, St., on, vii, 5-10, 40, 
62-3, 78, 102-4, 120, 171-3, 182-9; 
V, 155; Bacon on unworthy ideas 
of, iii, 45, 47; Berkeley on exist- 
ence and nature of, xxxvii, 246-50, 
267-9, 273-4, 276-9, 281, 293, 296; 
Browne on, iii, 274, 275, 278-9, 
294; Burke on, xxiv, 39, 60-2; 
Calvin on knowledge of, xxxix, 
5 1 ; Channing on study of, xxviii, 
340, 342-3; Cowper on ways of, 
xlv, 575-6; Dante on, xx, 300, 
391; Descartes on existence and 
nature of, xxxiv, 29-33; "dice of, 
always loaded," v, 94; Emerson 
on, 151, 152; Emerson on ideas 
of, 285-6; Emerson on knowledge 
of, 75; Epictetus on, ii, 137 (59- 
61), 141 (68); "helps those who 
help themselves," xvii, 36; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 390; Hume on, xxxvii, 
318, 362-5, 388-91, 419-28; Locke 
on, 123-4, 126; Marcus Aurelius 
on existence of, ii, 304 (28) ; Mill 
on common notions of, xxv, 31-2; 
Mill on worship of, 176; Milton 
on, iv, 147, 234, 256-7; 426; Mon- 
taigne on existence of, xlviii, 396- 
7; morality and idea of, xxxii, 
374; Pascal on existence and 
nature of, xlviii, 82, 84-7, 90-1, 
163-4, 194 (580); Pascal on 
misery of man without, 23-67, 130 
(389) ; Penn on low ideas of, i, 
405-6; Pope on knowledge of, xl, 
418-19; Raleigh on, xxxix, 115- 
17; Raleigh on, as the Creator, 
107, 108-9, iio-ii, 113-14; Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 256, 253-62, 274-6, 
298, 392 (see also Providence, 
Sacred Books) 

God, in Faust, xix, 17-20 

God, in Paradise Lost, iv, 140-3, 
145-6, 198-9, 201-2, 224-s, 234, 
310, 324-5; Bagehot on Milton's, 
xxviii, 207 

God, a Mighty Fortress Is Our, 
xlv, 570-1 



GENERAL INDEX 



251 



God, Now Thank We All Our, 
xlv, 571 

God the Father, Hymn to, xl, 
311-12 

Godfrey de Bouillon, in Dante's 
Paradise, xx, 363 note 5; "one 
of nine worthies," xxxix, 22 

Godfrey, Thomas, i, 58, 60, 67 

Godlyman, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 295 

Godolphin, Lord, and Addison, 
xxvii, 169-70 

Gods, date of, on earth, xxxiii, 'j2t^ 
74; first named in Egypt, 7, 26-7, 

fo-i ; Herodotus on the, 6-7; 
lutarch on, xii, 78-9; Roman and 
Greek, Dryden on, xiii, 48 

Godwin, Mary, second wife of Shel- 
ley, xviii, 2^2 

Goethe, Johann Wolfgang von, Ar- 
nold on, xlii, 118 1, II 82; on the 
beautiful, v, 311; Byron compared 
with, xxxii, 411-14; Carlyle and, 
XXV, 329, 330; Carlyle on, v, 472; 
XXV, 338, 404, 441, 461; charac- 
teristics of, xxxii, 402, 407-11; 
charities of, v, 199; on classics, 
xxxii, 132; on compensation of 
growth, xi, 158; as a critic, xxxii, 
129; device of, xxv, 107; Egmont, 
xix, 247-331; Emerson on, v, 22\ 
on evolution, xi, 6, 10 note; 
Faust, xix, 7-195; Hermann and 
Dorothea, 335-431; on himself, 
xxv, 424; honor due to, xxxii, 
416; the Iphigenia of, xxxix, 438; 
life and works, xix, ^-6; loneli- 
ness of, xxviii, 17; Mahomet^s 
Song, xxx, 253; on^ Manzoni's 
drama, xxi, 3; Mazzini on, xxxii, 
399-400; Propylaen, Introduc- 
tion to, xxxix, 264-80; remarks 
on Propylaen, 1, 55; reaction 
against, xxxii, 400; Schiller and, 
xxvi, 368; on self-development, 
xxv, 164; Taine on, xxxix, 452; 
Wilhelm Meister, xxv, 396-9; on 
the will, V, 300-1 

Goethe and Byron, Essay on, Maz- 
zini*s, xxxii, 399-419 

Goeze, J. M., and Lessing, xxxii, 

194 
Goguier, M. de, and Pare, xxxviii, 

23, 45 

Gold, all not, that glitters, xviii, 
201; "all that glitters is not," xl, 
475; all doth lure, xix, 114; 
ibund generally virgin, x, 182; 
Harrison on, xxxv, 338; good to 
buy gold, v, 249; man's god, i, 
347 (87) ; More on, xxxvi, 202-3, 
205-6; "sacred hunger of perni- 
cious," xiii, 133; type of wisdom, 
xxviii, 104 (see also Precious 
Metals) 

Gold, For Lack of, xli, 545 



Gold-mining, in Chili, xxix, 283- 

284 
Golden Age, Don Quixote on the, 

xiv, 86-7; Hume on, xxxvii, 421; 

Milton on, iv, 11 
Golden Calf, xliv, 283 (19), 444 

(41); Milton on, iv, 102 
Golden Fleece, Stukeley on, v, 476-7 
Golden Goose, story of the, xvii, 

169-72 
Golden Hind, Drake's ship, xxxiii, 

215 note 5; in Gilbert's voyage 

270, 282, 305 
Golden Legend, iii, 44 note; Pro- 
logue TO, xxxix, 14-15 
Golden Rule, of Confucius, xliv, 38 

(2), 54 (23); of Jesus, 374 (31); 

Kant on the, xxxii, 361 note; of 

Tzu-kung, xliv, 16 (11) 
Golden Sayings of Epictetus, ii, 

117-186 
Golden Years, Luther on, xxxvi, 

314 note 
GoLDiE, John, Epistle to, vi, 100- 

lOI 

Goldie's Brains, On Commissary, 
vi, 488 

Goldsmith, Oliver, Deserted Vil- 
lage, xli, 521-32; Emerson on, v, 
22\ to tonnson, xviii, 199; life 
and works, 198; Retaliation, xli, 
517-21; Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 
133; She Stoops to Conquer, 
xviii, 197-269; Thackeray on, 
xxviii, 7, 10, 18; The Travel- 
ler, xli, 532-44; When Lovely 
Woman, 517 

Goleta, loss of, xiv, 406-7; sonnet 
on, 410 

Goliath, Cervantes on, xiv, 11; 
Mohammed on, xlv, 925 note 

Gomez, in Egmont, xix, 297-9 

Gomita, the friar, in Hell, xx, 93 
and note 4 

Gomorrah, Browne on, iii, 284 

Goneril, in King Lear, Albany and, 
xlvi, 270-1, 294, 295-6; before 
battle, 289; Cordelia and, 211; 
death of, 299; Edmund and, 269- 
70, 275-6, 284, 290, 296; Lear 
and, 205, 212, 217-18, 223-8, 243- 
4; Regan and, 227^ 240, 245-8, 
271-2, 293-4; Ruskin on, xxviii, 

143 
Gonzaga, Carlo, xxi, 454 
Gonzaga, Ercole, xxxi,_ 86 note 3 
Gonzaga, Ippolito, xxxi, 350, 354 
Gonzaga, Ludovic, death of, xxxii, 

Gonzaga, Vincenzo, xxi, 454 

Gonzago, Federigo, xxxi, 86 note 2 

Gonzales, Mariano, companion of 

Darwin, xxix, 333, 383 , . , 

Gonzalo, in The Tempest, Ariel 

and, xlvi, 406-7; at banquet, 420- 

I, 423; in island after wreck. 



252 



GENERAL INDEX 



397-402, 419-20; Prospero and, 
386, 434-6, 438; in shipwreck, 
380, 381 
Gonzalo, Don, xxi, 454-6, 487-9 
Gooch, Dr., on puerperal fever, 

xxxviii, 241-2 
Good, Arabian verse on sowing, 
xvi, 26 J Browning on, xlii, 1147; 
Confucius on, xliv, 14 (25), 53 
(12), 58 (u); for evil, ii, 153; 
xliv, 50 (36), 374 (27-35); for 
good's sake, ii, 163 (126); i, 375 
(441); nature of, ii, 137 (59, 
60) ; Pascal on search for, xlviii, 
i39> 156 (462); unlimited, xx, 
207-8 
Good and evil, Augustine, St., on, 
vii, 60; Emerson on, v, 22T, 
Euripides on, viii, 334; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 351-2, 429; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 220 (39), 242 
(41), 256 (i), 283 (20), 293 (16); 
Milton on, iii, 212; Pope on, xl, 
419-25; Shakespeare on, xlvi, 123 
Good Breeding, Locke on, xxxvii, 
76-7, 82, 83, 84-5, 128, 129, 132; 
Swift on, xxvii, 1 06-11 (see also 
Manners) 
Good-Bye, by Emerson, xlii, 1292-3 
Good-conscience, in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 319 
Good Friday, Walton on, xv, 408 
Good Hope, Cape of, xxxiii, 233 
Good Manners and Good Breeding, 

Essay on, xxvii, io6-i» 
Good Morrow, The, xl, 320-1 
Good Nature, Emerson on, v, 219; 
Hobbes's definition of, xxxiv, 
354; Locke on, xxxvii, 76, 126 
Goodness, Cicero on, ix, 14, 15; 
Emerson on, v, 67; Pliny on, ix, 
275; sensuous and ascetic, xxviii, 
175-9; "thinks no ill," iv, 155; 
Tzu-chang on, xliv, 65 (2) 
Goodness and Goodness of Nature, 

iii, 34-6 
Good Sense, Descartes on, xxxiv, 5 
Good-Will, Buddha on, xlv, 612; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 354; Kant on, 



xxxii, 323-4, 344, 368, 370 

~ "Pi 

XV, 29-32 



Good- Will, in Pilgrim's Progress, 



Goody Blake, tale of, xxxix, 282 

Gookins, Capt., xliii, 152, 154, 155 

Goose with Golden Eggs, fable of, 
xvii, 34 

Goose-Girl, The, xvii, 184^ 

Gorboduc, Sidney on, xxvii, 46 

Gordon Castle, vi, 297-8 

Gordon,^ Dr., on puerperal fever, 
xxxviii, 239-40 

Gordon, Lord George, in Newgate, 
xxiv, 232 

Gordon, Thomas, translator of Taci- 
tus, xxxiii, 93 

Gorges, Butshead, xxxiii, 349, 363, 
369 



Gorgias, Cicero on, xii, 245-6; na- 
tive of Sicily, xxviii, 60; old age 
of, ix, 50; Plato on, ii, 5; riches 
of, X, 142 
Gorgons, ^schylus on the, viii, 183 
Goring, John, xxxiii, 237, 244, 245, 

256, 259 
Gorini, Lattanzio, xxxi, 360, 361, 
^ 379» 409 . 

Corner Glacier, xxx, 230, 237 
Gosan, fertility of, xxxv, 328 
Gospel, Bunyan's parable of the, 
^v, 34; Calvin on the, xxxix, 52; 
Jesus on the, xliv, ^ 403 (16); 
Luther on the, xxxvi, 269, 270, 
342-3, 364-5; Mohammed on the, 
xlv, 1 01 3; Pascal on the, xlviii, 
189 (568), 222 (658), 267 (742), 
281 (798-800), 403, 404; Paul, 
St., on the, xxxix, 49 
Gospel According to Luke, xliv, 

355-426 
Goss-Hawk, The Gay, xl, 70-3 
Gosson, Stephen, and Sidney, 

xxvii, 6 
Gothel, Dame, the enchantress, xvii, 

^ 73-.4 . ^ . 

Gothinians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

120 
Gothones, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

1 20- 1 
Goths, learning despised by, xxxv, 

404; on poetry, xxvii, 38-9 
Gouast, Capt., xxxviii,^ 47-8 
Goulburn, Henry, xliii, 273 
Goujon, Jean, Hugo on, xxxix, 367 
Gould, John, on cuckoos, xi, 273; 

on color of birds, 146 
Gournay, Mile, de, xlviii, 24 note; 

Montaigne and, xxxii, 109 
Gournou, husbandry of, v, 207 
Goveanus, Andreas, xxxii, 72 
Government, Bacon on, iii, 14, 39. 
40; Bentham on criticism of, 
xxvii, 252-4, 257-8; better no, 
than cruel, xvii, 15; Burke on, 
xxiv, 208, 209-10, 413; Calvin on 
civil, xxxix, 54; checks to evil, v, 
93; Confucius on, xliv, 7 (i), 8 
(19), 44 (11), 69 (2); dangers of 
money-power in, xxv, 112; by dis- 
cussion, xxviii, 478; duties of, x, 
466-7; Emerson on, v, 250-4, 257- 
8, 260-1, 265; expenses of, x, 468- 
88; expenses of, unproductive, 
283;^ Goldsmith on, and human 
happiness, xH, 544; Hamilton on 
efficiency of, xliii, 214-15; impor- 
tance of, overrated, xxviii, 331; 
Jay on necessity of, xliii, 217; 
Jefferson on, 160; Lincoln on per- 
petuity of, 336-7; Lowell on forms 
of, xxviii, 477-8; Machiavelli on 
kinds of, xxxvi, 7; Marshall on 
powers of, xliii, 227-8, 229; Mill 
on form of, xxv, 111-12; Mill on 
science of, Z03-6; Milton's plan 



GENERAL INDEX 



253 



of, xxviii, 106; not an end, i, 
365 (311); /..of, by, and for the 
people," xliii, 44i;. Pascal on 
foundations of, xlviii, 108 (304), 
110 (311); Penn on, i, 367-70; 
Pope on, xl, 440, 441; revenue of, 
3C, 489-590; jRousseau on origin 
and forms of, xxxiv, 219-27; Rus- 
kin on visible, xxviii, 132; self- 
defence first duty of, 446; super- 
stition and, iii, 47; Swift on per- 
fect form of, xxvii, 97; Vane on, 
xliii, 129; Washington on duty to, 
257; Washington on, and liberty, 
258 

Government, Arbitrary, by Win- 
throp, xliii, 90-112 

Government Intervention, with cap- 
ital, X, 351-2; with education, XXV, 
315-17; with equality of employ- 
ments, X, 126-52; with foreign 
commerce, 346-413; with freedom 
of contract, xxv, 311-13; with in- 
dividual liberty, 211-17, 281-301; 
with industry, x, 466; with mar- 
riage, xxv, 317-18; with move- 
ments of precious metals, x, 328- 
34» 398-401; objections to, xxv, 
318-25; with rates of interest, x, 
loi, 298-9; De Tocqueville on, 
xxv, 125; with trade, 303-11 with 
wages, X, 82, 1 50-1 

Government Ownership, Mill on, 
XXV, 320-3; Smith on, x, 489-97 

GowDEN Locks of Anna, vi, 399 

Gower, John, Dryden on, xxxix, 
170; Johnson on, xxviii, 78; Sid- 
ney on, xxvii, 9 

Gracchi, conciseness of the, ix, 214; 
Emerson on the, v, 191; Machia- 
velli on the, xxxvi, 36 

Gracchus, Caius, with Tiberius, ix, 
22. ; his tribuneship, 2Z 

Gracchus, Tiberius, Blosius and, 
xxxii, 81; friends of, ix, 21, 22; 
revolution of, 23 

Grace, Bunyan on, xv, 36-7, 86-8, 
219; Dante on reception of, xx, 
409; Kempis on, vii, 260, 336-41, 
274-5; Milton on, iv, 141-2, 144; 
misinterpretations of doctrine of, 
xxxix, 48; Pascal on, xlviii, 142, 
148, 168 (508), 171 (5I7)» 172 
(520-2), 219 (643), 333, 372; 
Penn on, i, 382 (528) 

Grace, A Child's, xl, 343 

Grace after Dinner, vi, 454 

Grace after Meat, vi, 490 

Grace before and after Meat, vi, 
490 

Grace before Dinner, vi, 454 

Grace, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 
283, 286 

Grace, Jamea, Epigram on, vi, 549 

(irace, Kobrit, i, 60, 63-4, 65, 116 

Gracefulness, beauty without, v, 
317; Burke on, xxiv, 102 



Graceless, Christian first named, xv, 

50 
Graces, De Quincey on the, xxvii. 

Gradation, necessity of, in change, 

V, 313-14 
Graeme, Sir John, and Barbara 

Allan, xl, 69 
Graeme, Sir Robert, xlii, 1203-4, 

1215, 1220, 1221-2, 1224 
Graffiacan, the demon, xx, 90, 92 
Grafting, xi, 310-11; Cicero on, ix, 

(id; in Elizabethan England, xxxv, 

254; Webster on, xlvii, 742 
Graham, George, xxv, 56-7, d^y 81 ^ 
Graham, Marquis of. Burns on, vi, 

167 
Graham, Miss, Inscription to, vi, 

528 
Graham, James, My Dear and Only 

Love, xl, 368-9 
Graham, Robert, of Gartmore, If 

Doughty Deeds, xli, ^44-5 
Graham, Robert, of Fintry, Epis- 
tle to, vi, 329-31 
Graham, Robert, Second Epistle 

TO, vi, 449 
Graham^ Robert, Burns to, vi, 

375 
Graham, Wiluam, Lines on, vi, 

520 
Grahame and Bewick, a ballad, xl, 

123-30 
Gram, the sword, xlix, 299, 307-8, 

^ 311. 327» 338, 349 ^ ,, , , , 
Gramimond, horse of Valdabrun, 

xlix, 153 
Grammar, Augustine, St., on rules 
of, vii, 20-1; of foreign languages, 
xxxvii, 147, 149, 153-6; Locke on 
study of, 153-6; Montaigne on 
study of, xxxii, 61-2; Penn on 



teaching, 1, 338 (6, 8) 

Fun 
1 126 



Grammarian's 



ERAL, The, xlii. 



Granacci, Elisabetta, mother of Cel- 
lini, xxxi, 8-10 

Granacci, Stefano, xxxi, 8-9 

Grand, M. le, xxxviii, 12 

Grand-Pre, village of, xlii, i353» 
1354-5; burning of, 1381-2 

Grand Jury, in U. S., xliii, 207 (5; 

Grandeur (see Sublime) 

Grandgent, Prof., on Dante, xx, 4 

Grandison, Sir Charles, xxvii, 289 

Grandonie, xlix, 151, 154-56 

Grani, Sigurd's horse, xlix, 303, 
319, 336-7. 360, 423 

Granite, Darwin on, xxix, 301 

Granmar, King, xlix, 292 

C^RANT, David, Lines on, vi, 373 

Grant, Prof., on origin of species, 
xi, 12 

Grant, Sir Robert, Hymn by, xlv, 
552 

Grant, U. S., terms of surrender at 
Appomattox, xliri, 447-8 



254 



GENERAL INDEX 



Granulations, Lister on, xxxviii, 

^ -274-5 

Granville, Lord, Burns on, vi, 56; 
on America, i, 166-7 

Granville, Cardinal, xxxix, 91 

Grape, Cicero on the, ix, 65-6 

Grapes, Locke on, xxxvii, 21 

Grapes, Sour, fable of, xvii, 22 

Grasse, Count de, xliii, 180 

Grasshopper and Ant, fable of, 
xvii, 25 

Grasshopper and Cricket, by Keats, 
xli, 919 

Grasshoppers, Harrison on, xxxv, 
367-8 

Grassuccio, II, xxxi, 34 

Gratian, the monk, xx, 329 note 
17 

Gratilla, wife of Rusticus, ix, 274 
note 

Gratitude, Burns on emotions of, 
yi, 300 note; benefits, for small, 
iii, 36; to God, Kempis on, vii, 
260; greed, go not together, 
and, xvii, 11; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
386, 423; Milton on, vi, 159; no, 
in the wicked, xvii, 17; rich, the 
tribute of, vi, 528; sign of noble 
souls, xvii, 20; Wordsworth on, 
xli, 665 

Grave, Bryant's choice of a, xlii, 
1268-9 

Grave-digger, riddle of the, xlvi, 
180-1 

Gravelines, battle of, xix, 250 

Gravitation, Bacon on, xxxiv, 102-3; 
Cartesian idea of, 116; Faraday 
on, XXX, 9-23; Helmholtz on law 
of, 182; illustrations of, 9, lo-ii; 
universality of, 12-14, 18-20; illus- 
tration of laws of, 21-3; Kelvin 
on, 315-17, 295; Leibnitz on 
theory of, xi, 520; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 176; Newton's discovery 
of universal, xxxiv, 117-23; New- 
ton on, xxxvii, 365 note; New- 
ton's Principia, expounded in, 
xxxix, 157 note (see also Gravity) 

Gravity, centre of, xxx, 14-18; 
moving force, 186-90, 197; old 
view of, xxxiv, 325 
Gravity, the quality, Cicero on, in 
age, ix, 70; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
380; Penn on, i, 351 (119) 
Gray, Asa, on holly, xi, 107; Man- 
ual of Flora, 125; on plants of 
New and Old Worlds, 416; on 
sexes in trees, 113; on spores, 

524 

Gray, Farquhar, vi, 190 

Gray, Thomas, Arnold on, xxviii, 
84; Bagehot on, 199, 200; The 
Bard of, James Mill on, xxv, 16; 
Burns on, vi, 187; Hazlitt on, 
xxvii, 292; poems by, xxxix, 290; 
poems by, xl, 455-75; quoted, vi. 



142; Wordsworth on, xxxix, agOf 

309 

Grease, and cow-pox, xxxviii, 153-5 
and note, 190-2; disease of horses, 
i53» 155 note 3; and smallpox, 
162-4, 193, 207-8 

Great Acts, require great means, 
iv, 386 

Great Britain, Burke on crown 01, 
xxiv, 162-82; Freeman on, xxviii, 
266-7; naval forces on Great 
Lakes, xliii, 283-5; realm of, iv, 
47; Treaty of 1783 with, xliii, 
185-91; Treaty of 1814 with, 273- 
82; Treaty of 1842 with, 299-308; 
wages in, x, 77-82; cost of living 
in, 82 

Great-grace, in Pii^grim's Progress, 
XV, 130-1, 134-5 

Great Harry, Longfellow on the, 
xlii, 1333 

Great-Heart, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 176; at Mnason's house, 282, 
284-5; fight with Monster, 286-7; 
kills Giant Despair, 290-2; en- 
counter with Slay-good, 274-5; 
with Feeble-mind, 278-9; on 
Christian and Faithful, 280-1 ; 
experience with Mr. Fearing, 256- 
61; on Self-will, 263-5; with 
Gains, 267-8; his riddle, 272; in 
Delectable Mountains, 293-4; 
meets Valiant, 299-305; in the 
Enchanted Ground, 305-8; on 
Madam Bubble, 312; parts with 
Christiana, 315; in Pilgrim's 
Progress, conducts the women, 
214-24; fights with Grim the 
giant, 225; leaves the pilgrims, 
226-7; returns to pilgrims, 241; 
in valley of Humiliation, 243-7; 
in valley of Death, 248-53; with 
Mr. Honest, 254-5 

Great Lakes, naval forces on, xliii, 

283-5 

Great Men, acquiescence of, v, 64; 
Aristotle on, 398; belief in, 
natural, 202; Confucius on, xliv, 
10 (9); illustrate their places, 
V, 132; independence of, 68; love 
and, iii, 28; love of, xlviii, 426; 
make great things, v, 18; obliga- 
tions of, i, 412-14; Pascal on 
vices of, xlviii, 45 (103); past 
and present, v, 86; smiles of, vi, 
197; worship of, Carlyle on, xxv, 
4 10- 11; worship of, meaning of, 
V, 19 

Great Place, Bacon on, iii, 29-32 
(see also Ambition) ; Confucius 
on, xliv, 13 (14); Dyer on, xl, 
211; Epictetus on, ii, 131 (43); 
Penn on, i, 399-400; penalty of, 
V, 92-3 

Great Riches, Luther on, xxxvi« 

349 



GENERAL INDEX 



255 



Great Sacrifice, Confucius on the, 
xliv, lo (lo, ^i) 

Great Spirits Now on Earth So- 
journing, xli, 921 

Great works, from childless men, 
iii, 20, 22 

Greatness, appeals to future, v, 71; 
Burns on, vi, 91; domesticity and, 
i» 73; essence of, v, 131; known by 
accident, xxv, 425-6; latent, 433-4; 
Mammon on, iv, 117; original, 
always, v, 201 ; pleasure of, xlviii, 
no (310); Pascal on, 66 (180), 
121 (353)» 127 (378), 131 (397). 
279 (793)> 382-8, 418; Pope on, 
xl, 447; Seneca on, iii, 16; 
Shakespeare on, xlvi 165; transi- 
toriness of, xvi, 3i5-9» 326-7, 
331-2, 334-6; true, Kempis on, 
vii, 217 (6); unconsciousness of, 
xxv, 422; unpopularity of, 419- 
21; Webster's fable of, xlvii, 776; 
quest of, 811; worldly price of, 
xviii, 435 

Greatness, True, by Watts, xl, 408 

Grecian Urn, Ode on a, xli, 901-3 

Greco, Giovanni, xxxi, loi note 5 

Greece, Ancient, works dealing 
with, 1, 19, 26; Caxton on women 
of, xxxix, 1 1 ; Collins on music 
in, xli, 491; colonies of, x, 414; 
decline of military spirit in, xxvii, 
392; decline of morality in, 397; 
freedom of speech in ancient, iii, 
201, 203-4; history of, Carlyle on, 
xxv, 381-2 (see also Plutarch's 
Lives of Themistocles, Pericles, 
Aristides, Alcibiades, and Demos- 
thenes) ; languages, study of, in, 
xxxvii, 156, 174; letters and arts 
of, v, 155-6; literature of, later, 
xxvii, 359-60; literature of , Jesus 
on, iv, 408; patriotism in, strength 
of, xxvii, 415-16; Pliny on, ix, 
349; religion, philosophy and art 
of, xxxix, 455-6; Roman dominion 
in, xxxvi, 18; Romans in, 11, 12, 
13. i9» 17 'y Rousseau on cause of 
arts of, xxxiv, 181; Schiller on 
culture of, xxxii, 232-3, 237-8, 
248; the Turkish dominion in, 
xxxvi, 10; Turkish power in, be- 
ginning of, 47 (see also Hellas) 

Greece, The Isles of, xli, 833-5; 
remarks on, 1, 25, 29 

Greed, Confucius on, xliv, 57 (7); 
Fable of, xvii, 34; "goes not 
with gratitude,** 11 (see also 
Covetousness) 

Greedy, Justice, in New Way to 
Pay Old Debts, xlvii. Furnace 
on, 827; at Lady Allworth's 830- 
2; Marrall and Overreach on, 
835-6; at Overreach's, 854-5,856, 
857, 860, 861-2, 863, 864, 865; 
with Tapwell, 878-9 



Greek Church, Freeman on, xxviii, 

241; Luther on, xxxvi, 318 
Greek Classics, xxxii, 127 
Greek Comedy, Hugo on, xxxix, 

364-5 
Greek Drama, debt of, to Homer, 
xiii, 7; Hugo on, xxxix, 358-9, 
364-5» 377* 403 '» Voltaire on, 
382 

Greek Dramas, 1, 19, 32 

Greek Hymns, xlv, 553-7 

Greek Language, Carlyle on, xxv, 
381; Emerson on, v, 267; Hux- 
ley on, xxviii, 221-9; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 71-2, 81-2, 136, 155, 174, 
178-81; Mill on, xxv, 25; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 67, 68; Milton 
on, iii, 249, 253-4; More on, 
xxxvi, 145; study of, Augustine, 
St., on, vii, 17 

Greek Learning, study of, iii, 209- 
10 

Greek Literature, Hugo on, xxxix, 

^ 357-9, 364-5 

Greek Names, xii, 161-2 

Greek Philosophers, Cudworth on, 
xxxvii, 177 

Greek Philosophy, divisions of, 
xxxii, 317 

Greek Science, Huxley on, xxviii, 
227 

Greek Tragic Dance, Coleridge on, 
xxvii, 272 

Greek Tragedy, decay of, viii, 418 
(see The Frogs) 

Greeks, and barbarians, xxxvii, 
156, 174; calendar of the, xxxiii, 
7; chronology of the, xxxiv, 130; 
in Egypt, xxxiii, 90; Freeman on 
the modern, xxviii, 273, 281, 
275-6; Goethe on culture of the, 
xxxix, 264-5; poetry among the, 
xxvii, 11-12; Schiller on art of 
the, xxxii, 267; Taine on the, 
xxxix, 435-6, 448 

Green Grow the Rashes, vi, 50-1 

Green Linnet, The, xli, 657-8 

Greene, Robert, Content, xl, 289 

Greenhead Ghyll, xli, 630, 642 

Greenland, Christianity in, xhii, 13, 
14; colonized by Eric the Red, 
5, 6; subsidence in, xxxviii, 428 

Greenough, Horatio, Emerson on, 
V, 328-9 

Greenvile, John, xxxiii, 349, 363, 
369 

Greenville, Sir Richard, xxxiii, 

234 

Greenwood Tree, Under the, xl, 
268-9 

Gregory I, St., the Great, on angels, 
XX, 407; and the Angles, v, 361, 
xxviii, 48; and England, xxxvi, 
136; heathen antiquities de- 
stroyed by, iii, 144; on sin, xxxvi, 
28a 



VOL. L — HC (9) 



256 



GENERAL INDEX 



Gregory, St., Nazianzen, Basil, St., 
and, students at Athens, xxviii, 
53-4> 56-62; Christ Suffering, iv, 
416 

Gregory VII, and Henry IV, xxxvi, 
308 note 25 

Gregory Bay, the climate at, xxix, 
247 

Gregson, Mr., on puerperal fever, 
xxxviii, 240-1 

Grendel, in Beowulf, ravages of, 
xlix, 8-10, 13, 19; and Beowulf, 
17-18, 22, 24, 25-9, 32, 41, 61-2, 
64; hand of, 28, 32-3, 42; head 
of, 50, 51, 52; mother of, 4i-5o» 

65 

Grenville, Lord, and Burke, xxiv, 
402 

Grenville, Sir Richard, xlii, 104 1-6 

Cresham, Mr., and More, xxxvi, 
122 

Gretchen, in Faust (see Margaret) 

Grethel, Hansel and, xvii, 82-9 

Greville, Fulke, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 
282-3 

Grey, half brother to Richard III, 
xxxix, 79, 80 

Grey, Dr., on Shakespeare, xxxix, 
252 

Greyhounds, Harrison on, xxxv, 
369-70 

Grief, alone and with mates, xlvl, 
262; Augustine, St., on, vii, 
30, 52; beauty's canker, xlyi, 394, 
Browning, E. B., on, xli, 964; 
Burke on, xxiv, 34-5; Coleridge 
on, xli, 745; desires to be alone, 
xlvii, 486; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 353; 
instructs the wise, xviii, 403; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 284 (25), 
285 (28), 287 (34); physical 
effects of, xxxviii, 131; Shake- 
speare on, and joy, xlvi, 144; 
Shakespeare on silent, 362; and 
tears, xxvii, 299; "what need a 
man forestall his," iv, 56 

Griefs, reduced by sympathy, iii, 

Griego, John, xxxiii, 218 

Grieve, James,^ Epitaph on, vi, 53 

Griffith, John, i, 192 

Grifir, prophecy of, xlix, 308; in 
the Edda, 267 

Griflet, Sir, xxxv, 134 

Grifolino, of Arezzo, in Hell, xx, 
124 and note 

Grignapoco, the bravo, xxi, 126 

Grignon, R. S., translator of Lu- 
ther, xxxvi, 2 

Grim, the giant, xv, 224-5 

Grimes, Sir Thos., and Dr. Donne, 
XV, 362 

Grimhild, wife of Giuki, xlix, 331; 
and Sigurd, 333, 334, 335; and 
Brynhild, 336, 339, 341, 343; and 
Gudrun, 360, 361, 362, 425-6, 427, 



429; remarks on magic potion of, 
267 

Grimm, Baron, on Shakespeare, 
xxxix, 335 

Grimm, Hermann, Emerson and, v, 4 

Grimm, Takob, xvii, 48 

Grimm, Wilhelm, xvii, 48 

Grimms* Household Tales, xvii, 
47-232; remarks on, 2 

Gripe-man, the schoolmaster, xv, 
106 

Gripir, the prophecy of, xlix, 267 

Grisi, JTulia, in England, v, 430 

Griso, in The Betrothed, xxi, iio- 
12, 125-8, 186-7, i90» 193; de- 
spatched to Monza, 194-6; finds 
Lucia, 304; with Rodrigo in the 
plague, 557-8, 560-2; his death, 

563 
Grisolan, in Duchess of Malfi, 

xlvii, 725, 726, 744, 809, 813 
Grocyn, Doctor, xxxvi, 94 
Grolier, Jean, xxxi, 337 note i 
Grose, Francis, Capt., epigram on, 

vi, 371; lines on, 369, 411 
Grote, George, xxv, 80, 81; Mill on, 

51-2, 196; in Parliament, 126; and 

Westminster Review, 65-6 
Grotesque, Hugo on the, xxxix, 363- 

70> 374-5; origin of word, xxxi, 

63 
Ground-rent, how determined, x, 

511; taxes on, 514-16 
Groups, of organic beings, xi, 142- 

3; sudden appearance of specific, 

354-9 
Grout, Sir Jenken, epitaph of, v, 

221-2 
Grove*s Battery, xxx, 78 
Growth, compensation of, xi, 158-60; 

laws of, defined, 222; laws of, 

effects of, 225-7; law of nature, 

V, 106-7 
Grub Street, Swift on, xxvii, 126 
Gryphon, symbol of Christ, xx, 267 

note 10 
Gryphons, ^schylus on the, viii, 

183-4 and note 55^ 
Grypus, name of, xii, 162 note 
Guachos, compared with Guasos, 

xxix, 275-6 
Guadagni, Felice, xxxi, 182-3, 196, 

209 
Guadalupe Hidalgo, Treaty of, 

xliii, 309-26 
Gualdrada, Dante on, xx, 68 note i 
Guam, cession of, xliii, 470 (2), 471 

^ (5), 473^ 

Guanaco, Darwin on the, xxix, 179- 

82 
Guardian Angels (see Tutelary A.) 
Guardians, Hobbes on power of, 

xxxiv, 432; Mohammed on duties 

of, xlv, 980-1 
Guascar, xxxiii, 313, 327, 331, 341 
Guasconti, and Cellini, xxxi, 29-33 



GENERAL INDEX 



257 



Guasos, of Chili, xxix, 275-6^ 
Guayatecas, Darwin on, xxix, 298- 

Guayna-capac, xxxiii, 313, 327, 328-9 

GuDE Ale Keeps the Heart Aboon, 
vi, 551 

Gudewife, Count the Lawin, vi, 
401 

Gudrid, the Norsewoman, xliii, 11, 
14, 15, 16, 21 

Gudrun, at Aliscourt, xlix, 360, 
425-6; Atli and, 362-3, 373*5. 428- 
32, 44i-3> 451-2; Brynhild, quar- 
rel with, 339-42, 344; daughter by 
Sigurd, 358; death of, 379, 446- 
9; dream of, 331-3; drink of, 361, 
427; future foretold, 358-9, 408- 
10; Gunnar and, 372, 440; mar- 
ried to Jonaker, 376, 444; Morris 
on, 273; Renan on, xxxii, 149; 
runes to brethren, xlix, 364-5, 
435-7; Sigurd, her marriage to, 
335-6, 396-422; at Sigurd's death, 
349-57» 401-2, 418, 419, 423-4; 
story of, remarks on, 267, 268; 
Swanhild avenged by, 378, 446, 
450-2 

Gudrun, First Lay of, xlix, 351- 
7; remarks on, 268 

Gudrun, Second Lay of, xlix, 422-32 

Gudrun, The Whetting of, xlix, 
444-9; remarks on, 268 

Guelfs, and Ghibellines in Italy 
(see numerous notes to Dante); 
opposed to papacy, xx, 308 note 
8, 310 note 21 

Guenevere (see Guinevere) 

Guenevere, The Defence of, xlii, 
1230-40 

Guerra, Pablo de la, xxiii, 406, 415 

Guest, Lady Charlotte, xxxii, 145, 

^ 154-5 

Guevarra, Fernando de, xiv, 516 

Guiana, Discovery of, Raleigh's, 
xxxiii, 311-94 

Guiana, advantages of, xxxiii, 390- 
2; drunkenness in, 332-3; extent 
of, 366; first knowledge of, 313; 
French attempts on, 336-7; gold 
of, 316-18, 370-1, 379-80; Milton on, 
iv, 333; productions and climate 
of, xxxiii, 389-90; Raleigh's ex- 
ploration of, 346-86; religions and 
customs of, 388; riches of, 327, 
328, 332, 335, 337, 371; settled 
from Peru, 327-8, 330; slave and 
other trades to, 345-6; Spanish at- 
tempts to conquer, 330-6, 338-46; 
tribes of, 386-7; wealth of, 313, 
388-9 

Guicciardine, Montaigne on, xxxii, 
103-4 

Guicciardini, Francesco, xxxi, 425 
note 

Guid^guid, Darwin on the, xxix, 306 

Guidi, Giacopo, xxxi, 423-4 



Guidi, Guido, xxxi, 311-12, 333, 350- 

I, 363 

Guido, Da Vinci and, xxxix, 450; 
Hazlitt on, xxvii, 293; portrait of 
Beatrice Cenci, xviii, 279 

Guidoguerra, in Hell, xx, 68 and 
note I 

Guildenstern, in Hamlet, xlvi, 116- 
17, 123-7, 131, i33-4» 140, i47-9» 
150, 160, 161, 173, 189, 198 

Guilds, labor, x, 126-38 

Guillotine, in Elizabethan England, 
XXXV, 386 

Guilt, Manzoni on, xxi, 339; Shake- 
speare on, xlvi, 166; what quick 
eyes has, xviii, 72 

Guilt, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 
130, 134-6 

Guines, Earl of. Constable of France, 
at Caen, xxxv, 7, 11-14 

Guinevere, and Launcelot, xiv, 100, 
515; XX, 353 note 2; xxxv, no, 
121, 139 (see also Guenevere, 
Defence of) ; in Holy Grail, 
xxxv, 114, 119, 120, 121; Renan 
on, xxxii, 149 

Guinicelli, Guido, xx, 191 note 5, 

254-5 

Guion, type of temperance, iii, 213 

Guiscard, Robert, xx, 116 note; in 
Paradise, 363 

Guise, Duke of, at Boulogne, 
xxxviii, 18; at Danvilliers, 20-1; 
at Metz, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28-9, 30, 
32, 33. 34. 35; at Moncontour, 
54; murder of, xxxix, 377 

Guittone, Dante on, xx, 255 

Guizot, M., in England, v, 390-1 

Gulf Stream, Dana on the, xxiii, 
361 

Gulliver's Travels, Tnackeray on, 
xxviii, 19-21 

Gulike, country of, xxxvi, 145, 146 

Gumila, the Jesuit, x, 422 

Gummere, Francis B., translator of 
Beowulf, xlix, 3-4 

Gun-cotton, xxx, 58 note 

Gunnar, son of Giuki, xlix, 331; 
Atli and, 364, 365, 367, 433-6; 
Brynhild and, 336-7, 339, 341, 
342-4, 345, 357-9. 403-11, 419-21; 
editor's remarks on story of, 267; 
Gudrun and, 360, 361, 408, 426; 
imprisoned, 370-1, 438, 439-40; 
Oddrun and, 358, 457, 460, 461-4; 
Sigurd and, 334, 335, 347-9, 35o, 
^55-6, 398-400, 402-3, 417-18, 451; 
in the worm-close, 372, 440, 463-4 

Gunning, Elizabeth and Maria, v^ 
315-10 

Gunpowder, combustibility of, com- 
pared with iron, xxx, 76; force 
of, 198; invention of, Don 
Quixote on, xiv, 398-9; invention 
of, effect on civilization, x, 471 

Gunpowder Plot, attributed to Machi- 



258 



GENERAL INDEX 



avelH, xxvn, 381; discovery of, 

iii, 281 note 
Gunshot Wounds, Lister on, xxxviii, 

280; Pare on, 11 -12, 40, 55 
Giinther, Dr., authority on fishes, 

xi, 242; on fish, 427-8 
Gurney, in Edward II, xlvi, 70, ^2- 

4, 77-8, 80-1 
Gusman, Felix, father of St. Do- 
minic, XX, 338 note 18 
Gustavus Adolphus, hymn attributed 

to, xlv, 572 
Guthlaf, xlix, 35 note 5, 38 
Gutters, Franklin on, i, 127 
Guttorm, son of Giuki, xlix, 331, 

348, 349, 359, 400-1, 418; on 

royalty of truth, y, 388 
Guy of Warwick, xiv, loi 
Guyard, the groom, xxxviii, 21-2 
Guyon, Sir, xxxix, 66, 68 
Guyot, quoted, xxviii, 418-19 
Gwendolen, chess-board of, xxxii, 

152 
Gwrhyr Gwalstawd leithoedd, xxxii, 

^ ^57-9 . 

Gyara, n, 132 (45) note 

Gyas, the Latin, xiii, 337 

Gyas, the Trojan, xiii, 83, 97, 186- 

91 

Gygres, death of, xiii, 323 

Gylippus, Plutarch on, xii, 61, 131 

Gylippus, sons of, in the -^neid, 
xiii, 404 

Gynaecea, goddess, xii, 281 

Habbab, xlv, 923 note 8 

Habeas Corpus, Johnson on writ of, 
xliii, 457; privilege of, 198 (2) 

Haberdasher, Chaucer's, xl, 21 

Habington, William, Poems by, xl, 
257-9 

Habit (s), Bacon on, formation of, 
iii, 102; Burke on, xxiv, 88; 
changed, exhibited by insects, xi. 
187; changed without change of 
structure, 189-90; diversification 
of, 123-5, 187-89; in eating, 
xxxvii, 18, 19, 20; endurance of 
cold and heat as a, lo-ii; Epic- 
tetus on evil, ii, 144 (75); errors 
due to, xlviii, 37; Goethe on, xix, 
T2\ hereditary, in plants, xi, 152; 
Hume on, xxxvii, 339-41. 349. 
394; inherited, effect of, xi, 29, 
267-70; instinct, compared with, 
262-3; Kempis on, vii, 284 (5); 
Locke on importance of, xxxvii, 
4, IS, 20, 45-6, 93-4, 97-8, 98, 
119-20; perfects qualities of mind, 
xlviii, 422; Shakespeare on, xlvi, 
158; of sleeping, xxxvii, 22-3; 
teaching of, 46-7; ten times 
nature, v, 385; transitional, xi, 
184-7; variation due to, 10 

Had I A Cave, vi, 498 

Had I THE Wyte, She Bade Me, 
vi, 566-7 



Hades, <<^neas's visit to, xiii, 220- 

33; Rhampsinitos in, xxxiii, 63; 

Socrates's description of, ii, no; 

Ulysses's visit to, xxii, 152-68 
'Hadigah, wife of Mohammed, xlv, 

886 
Hadley's Quadrant, inventor of, i, 

60 
Hadrian, Emperor, enviousness of, 

iii, 25; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 

260 (25), 262 izi) 
Haeckel, Prof., on phylogeny, xi, 

472 
Haemmerlein, Thomas (see Kempis, 

Thomas a) 
Haemon, in -^neid, xiii, 320, 331; 

in Antigone, viii, 260-1, 263-7, 

279, 281 
Haethcyn, in Begwui^f, xlix, 74, 75, 

Hafiz, quotation from, v, 301, 463 
Hafsah, wife of Mohammed, xlv, 

1006 note I 
Haggai, prophecies of, xlviii, 259- 

60 
Haggis, Address to a, vi, ^dd-y 
Haidinger's, Brushes, xxx, 279-80 
Hail-storms, Darwin on, xxix, 127-8 
Hainault, John of, in Crecy cam- 
paign, xxxv, 10, 15, 21, 28, 30; 

in Edward II, xlvi, 53-5, 56, 57, 

60 
Hair, To a Lock of, xii, 757-8 
Hair, St. Paul on long, xlv, 516 

(14-15); teeth and, relation of, 

xi, 30, 156 
Hake, King, death of, v, 357 
Hakewill, Wordsworth on, xxxix 

334 note 
Hakluyt, Richard, Drayton on, xl, 

232; on geography and chronology, 

xxx, 339 
Haldeman, Prof., on species, xi, 

13 
Halden, Henry of the, xxvi, 388-9 
Haldor, character of, v, 400-1 
Haldudo, John, in Don Quixote, 

xiv, 41 
Hales, Chief Justice, on cost of 

living, X, 81 
Hales, the irrefragable, xxviii, 48 
Halesus, in ^neid, xiii, 268, 338, 

340-1 
Halifax, punishment of theft in, 

xxxv, 386 
Halifax, Lord, and Addison, xxvii, 

169-70; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 150 
Halitherium, Darwin on, xi,^ 378 
Halitherses, in Odyssey, xxii, 2(>-'jy 

240, 343 
Halius, son of Alcinous, xxii, 107; 

dance of, 114 
Halket, George, Logie o' Buchan, 

xii, 585 
Hall, Bishop, Encomium of, iii, 200 

and note; Walton on, Xv, 358 



GENERAL INDEX 



259 



Hall, David, partner of Franklin, i, 

119 
Hall, Jim, in Two Years Before 

THE Mast, xxiii, 26, 419 
Hall, Sir John, xlii, 1220 
Hallam, Henry, Emerson on, v, 

456-7 ^, 
Halley, Edmund, on cpmets, xxxiv, 

120; Newton on, xxxix, 159 
Hai,i,oween, vi, 1 1 6-1 25 
Halonesus, speech on, xii, 204 note 
Ham, son of Noah, Burns on, vi, 

172; Milton on, iv, 348 
Haman, minister of Pharaoh, xvi, 

335 note 9; Mohammed on, xlv, 

944, 945 

Hamburgh, taxation at, x, 522; 
trading enterprises of, 490, 492 

Hamdir, in the Volsung Tale, xlix, 
Zl^y 378, 380; in the Edda, 444, 
445» 446 

Hamdir, The Lay of, xlix, 450-6; 
remarks on, 268 

Hame, Hame, Hame, xli, 802 

Hamilcar, and Agathocles, xxxvi, 
30 

Hamilton, Alexander, article in the 
Federalist, xliii, 213-16; and 
Washington's Farewell Address, 
250 note 

Hamilton, Andrew, i, 41, 42, 63, 
66 

Hamilton, Duchess of, beauty of, v, 
315-6 

Hamilton, Gavin, Burns on, vi, 75, 
yjy III; Epitaph for, 230; dedica- 
tion to, 221-4; extempore epistle 
to, 233-4; farewell to, 235 

Hamilton, Gavin, vi, 208-9 

Hamilton, Mary: a ballad, xl, 118- 
20 

Hamilton, William, The Braes of 
Yarrow, xli, 586-9 

Hamilton, Sir William, Mill on 
philosophy of, xxv, 173-7 

Kamish, The Revenge of, xlii, 
1474-9 

Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, Arnold 
on, xxviii, 73; Bagehot on, 198-9; 
in churchyard, xlvi, 181-7; Clau- 
dius and, 152, 162-3, 175-8, 192-4, 
197; death of, 197-8; scene with 
Gertrude, 153-9; the ghost and, 
105-8; Guildenstern's report on, 
133-4; Horatio and, 104-5, 140-1, 
173, 188-90; Laertes, duel with, 
194-6; pretended madness, 115- 
16; Ophelia and, loo-i, 103-4, 
120, 135-7; at Ophelia's funeral, 
186-7; in the original story, 86; 
Osric and, 190-3; at the play, 
141-3, 144, 145-7; players and, 
128-31, 138-9; Polonius and, 121- 
3, 127-8, 153; with Rosencrantz 
and Guildenstern, 123-7; Ruskin 
on, xxviii, 142; soliloquy of, xlvi, 



135; soliloquy, Lamb on, xxvil, 
315-16; soliloquy translated by 
Voltaire, xxxiv, 135-6 
Hamlet, Tragedy of, xlvi, 87-199; 
editorial remarks on, 86; Johnson 
on, xxxix, 225, 237; Lamb on 
stage representation of, xxvii, 317- 
19, 320-2, 330; Thoreau on, xxviii, 
426; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 134 
Hammon, Master, in Shoemaker's 
Holiday, xlvii, 461-2, 463-4, 471- 
3, 483-6, 490, 500-2 
Hammon, the god, iv, 14 (22) 
Hamor, and Jacob, xv, no 
Hananiah, death of, xlviii, 291 

(827) 
Hancock, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

353, 355, 356, 361, 367, 372, 375, 
380, 381, 384, 387, 390, 392, 393, 
415, 431-2; Haskell on, 381-2, 428 
Hancock, John, signer of Declara- 
tion, xliii, 164 
Handsome Nell, vi, 19-20 
Hanmer, Sir Thomas, xxxix, 249 
Hannibal, Cervantes on, xiv, 513; 
Cicero on, ix, 18; Fabius and, 49; 
Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 58; story 
of, before Rome, iii, 237 
Hans in Luck, story of, xvii, 179 
Hansel and Grethel, xvii, 82-9 
Happiness, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
183-6; Bacon on highest, iii, 8; 
Browne on, Z4^-7't Burns on, vi, 
325; Dante's allegory of, xx, 22$; 
Epictetus on, ii, 118 (3), 152 
(94), 162 (122), 164 (129), 170 
(147), 171 (151); Franklin on, i, 
58, 91, 128; Goldsmith on, xli, 
528, 534, 544; Kant on, xxxii, 
323, 325-6, 329, 346, 348-9. 373; 
Kempis on, vii, 288-9; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 9; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 
202 (8), 211 (12), 223 (51), 233 
(34); Mill's theory of, xxv, 94; 
More on, xxxvi, 207-16; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 54, 58, 63 (165), 64 
(170), 138, 150 (437), 157, 418; 
Penn on, i, 360-1 ; Pliny on great- 
est, ix, 351; Pope on, xl, 415-16, 
441-50; Rousseau on search for, 
xxxiv, 287; Shakespeare on, xlvi, 
123; Surrey on, xl, 197-8; Wash- 
ington on, and virtue, xliii, 243; 
Wotton on, xl, 295-6 
Happiness, That We Should Not 
Judge of Our, Until After Our 
Death, xxxii, 5-8 
Happy Insensibility, xli, 898-9 
Happy Life, Character of a, xl, 

295-6 
Happy Life, Means to Attain, xI, 

197-8 
Happy Warrior, Character of the, 

xli, 672-4 
Hardiness, Locke on, xxxvii, lOO-l 
106-8 



260 



GENERAL INDEX 



Haquin, king of Norway, xx, 370 

note 16 
Harapha, of Gath, with Samson, iv, 

„ 445-50 ^ ... 

Harbors, expense of maintaining, x, 

475 

Harcourt, Godfrey of, in French in- 
vasion, XXXV, 5-9, 12-14, 16, 18, 
23, 29 

Hardcastle, in She Stoops to Con- 
quer, with Mrs. Hardcastle and 
Tony, xviii, 203-6; with Kate, 
206-7; trains his servants, 214- 
15; receives Marlow and Hast- 
ings, 218-22; discusses Marlow 
with Kate, 232-4, 242-3; catches 
Marlow with Kate, 242-3; with 
Marlow and his servants, 246-8; 
with Sir Charles Marlow, 256-9; 
with Tony and wife in the gar- 
den, 262-4; sees Kate and Mar- 
low, 265-6; reconciled to Marlow, 
267; to Hastings, 267-8; gives 
Kate to Marlow, 269 

Hardcastle, Kate, in She Stoops to 
Conquer, with father, hears of 
young Marlow, xviii, 206-8; with 
Miss Neville, 208-9; meets Mar- 
low, 225-7; discusses him with her 
father, 232-4; pretends to be bar- 
maid, 238-9; with Marlow as bar- 
maid, 240-2 ; caught by her father, 
242-3; undeceives Marlow and 
tries to detain him, 248-50; tells 
of Marlow's love for her, 259; 
besought by Marlow, 265-6; makes 
herself known, 267; united to 
Marlow, 269 

Hardcastle, Mrs., in She Stoops 
TO Conquer, at home with Hard- 
castle and Tony, xviii, 203-6; Miss 
Neville and, 208-9; with Hast- 
ings, 228-9; with Tony and Miss 
Neville, 229-31, 250-1; and Miss 
Neville's jewels, 235-8; recovers 
jewels, 244-5 ; Tony's letter and, 
252-3; orders Constance to aunt's, 
253» 255-6; fooled by Tony, 261- 
4; plans finally upset, 267-9 

Hardness, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 223 

Hardships, Channing on value of, 
xxviii, 324^5 

Hardwicke, Dr., xxxviii, 175 

Hare, Mr., system of personal repre- 
sentation, XXV, 165-6 

Hare and Tortoise, fable of, xvii, 
39 

Hare WITH Many Friends, fable of, 
xvii, 40 

Hare-Mark in Moon, story of, xlv, 
712-16 

Hares and Frogs, fable of, xvii, 16 

Hargreaves, James, inventor of 
spinning- jenny, v, 410 

Harleian Miscellanies, Emerson on, 
V, 127 

Harlequin, Thackeray on, xxviii, 5 



Harley, Burns on, vi, 274 

Harm, Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 215 

(7), 230 (22) 
Harmonia, wife of Cadmus, viii, 412 
Harmony, Confucius on, xliv, 61 

(11); Dryden on, xl, 398 
Harp of the North, Farewell, 

xli, 773-4 
Harp that Once through Tara's 

Halls, xli, 840 
Harpalus, Demosthenes and, xii, 218 
Harpalyce, in ^neid, xiii, 86 
Harpies, ^Eneas and the, xiii, 138- 

9; in Dante's Hell, xx, 55 
Harpocras, phvsician, ix, 377, 378 
Harras, Rudolph der, in Wilhelm 

Tell, xxvi, 428-34, 454-9 
Harriers, Harrison on, xxxv, 369 
Harris, John, with Drake, xxxiii, 

184 
Harris, Tom, friend of Dana, xxiii, 

190, 199-204, 272, 279, 418 
Harrison, Benjamin, and Hawaii, 

xliii, 464 note 
Harrison, William, collaborator of 

Holinshed, xxxv, 228; Descrip- 
tion OF Elizabethan England, 

227-404 
Harrowing, origin of vord, ix, 65 
Harry, David, 1, 53, 61 7 
Harsnett, Dr., and Dr. Donne, xv, 

348 
Hart, Christ typified by a, xxxv, 

204; defined, 361 
Hart and Hunter, fable of, xvii, 

20 
Hart^ in the Ox-stall, fable of, 

xvii, 22-^ 

Hart, Sir Robert, at Otterburn, 

xxxv, 93, 102 
Harte, Bret, The Reveille, xiii, 

1482 
Hartley, David, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 

291; Mill on philosophy of, xxv, 

49 

Hartlib, Samuel, iii, 246; Cowley 
on, xxvii, 70; Milton on, iii, 247 

Hartsocher, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 129 

Harun Er-Rashid, in Arabian 
Nights, xvi, 65-71, 107, 120-1, 
220-1, 225-36, 240-1, 302-5 

Harut, the fallen angel, xvi, 62 note 

Harvard Classics, Editor's Intro- 
duction, 1, 3-14; Reader's Guide 
to, 17-72 

Harvard Commemoration Ode, xiii, 
1458-69 

Harvey, William, discoverer of cir- 
culation of blood, xxxiv, 129; 
Descartes on, 42 note; life and 
works of, xxxviii, 64; On Mo- 
tions OF Heart and Blood, 65- 

147 
Hasdrubal, Chaucer on wife of, xl, 

49 
Hasiy Ibn Wail, xlv, 923 note 
Haskell, Frank A., Account op 



GENERAL INDEX 



261 



Gettysburg, xliii, 347-440; life of, 
347 note 

Haste, half-sister of delay, xlii, 
1035; "from the Devil," xvi, 165; 
"make, slowly," xix, 379; Penn 
on excessive, i, 365 (300), 398 
(76-8) ; "that mars all decency," 
XX, 155 

Hastings, in She Stoops to Con- 
quer, admirer of Miss Neville, 
xviii, 208-9, 217-18; at the ale- 
house, 211-14; arrival at Hard- 
castle's, 216-18; with Mr. Hard- 
castle, 218-22; with Miss Neville, 
222-3; carries on jest with Mar- 
, low, 224; presents Marlow to 
Kate, 225-6; with Mrs. Hard- 
castle, 228-9; with Tony, 230-2, 
235; plans to elope with Con- 
stance, 243; learns loss of jewels, 
245; his letter to Tony, 253-4; 
denounces Tony, 254; and Mar- 
low, 255; hears Miss Neville 
gone, 256; recovers Constance 
through Tony, 260-1 ; with Miss 
Neville, 264; wins consent to 
marriage, 268-9 

Hastings, Lord, Raleigh on, xxxix, 
78, 79, 80 

Hastings, Warren, Burke on, xxiv, 
6; on Oriental literature, v, 464; 
Sheridan and, xviii, 104 

Hatch, mate on "Alert," xxiii, 422 

Hate-good, Lord, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 97-101 

Hate-light, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 1 01-2 

Haterius, Augustus on, xxvii, 59 

Hatred, Buddha on, xlv, 685, 686-7; 
Confucius on, xliv, 62 (24) ; 
Hume on, xxxvii, 342; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 291 (8) ; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 154 (451); Penn on, i, 
363 (269) 

Hats, Locke on, xxxvii, 11, 14 

PIaunted Palace. The, xlii, 1274 

Hauteclere, sword of Oliver, xlix, 
144, 150, 160 

Hauter, axiom of, xxxviii, 217 note 
2 

Havre de Grace, siege of, xxxviii, 

51-2 

Hawaiian Islands, Annexation of, 
xliii, 464-6 

Hawker, Robert Stephen, poem by, 
xlii, II 57 

Hawkins, Sir John Drake and, 
xxxiii, 126, 133, 235; Melendez 
and, 265; at San Juan, 334 

Hawkins, William, in Cape Verde 
Islands, xxxiii, 246 

Hawks, carrion, xxix, 66-70; 
guided to prey by sight, xi, 98; 
sacred in Egypt, xxxiii, 36, 37 

Hay, John, Convention with Pan- 
ama, xliii, 479 



Hay, Lord, ambassador of King 
James, xv, 339, 351 

Hays, Gen. Alex., at Gettysburg, 
xliii, 358, 365, 408 

Hayes, Edward, captain of "Golden 
Hind," xxxiii, 270, 282, 301, 306; 
Voyage to Newfoundland, 271, 
308 

Hazard, Capt., at Gettysburg, xliii, 
396 

Hazing, on board ship, xxiii, 56 
note 

Hazlitt, William, Carlyle on, xxv, 
361; life and writings, xxvii, 
280; Persons One Would Wish 
TO Have Seen, 281-95; Stevenson 
on, xxviii, 299-300 

Head, and limbs, related, xi, 29; 
Locke on coverings for the, 
xxxvii, II, 14 

Head, ^ Sir Francis, on America, 
xxviii, 419 

Heady, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 1 01-2 

Healfdene, xlix, 6 

Healing Question, A, xlii, 126-46 

Health, Antoninus's care of, ii, 197; 
Burke on pleasure in idea of, 
xxiv, 36, 38; Carlyle on, xxv, 
423-4, 435-6; Carlyle on care of, 
402-3; Channing on, xxviii, 366- 
7; Descartes on, xxxiv, 50; Epic- 
tetus on, care of, ii, 160 (118); 
Hunt on, xxvii, 307; More on, 
xxxvi, 213-14, 215; Locke on im- 
portance of, xxxvii, Q, 10; Pascal 
on use and misuse or, xlviii, 374; 
Pope on, xl, 443 ; rules of, 
xxxvii, 10-28; unconsciousness of, 
XXV, 333-48; Woolman on, care 
of, i, 244-5 

Health, by Pinkney, xxviii, 394-5 

Health, to Ane I Loe Dear, vi, 
590 

Health, Here's His, in Water, 
vi, 191 

Health, Here's to thy, vi, 28-9 

Health, Regimen of. Bacon's, iii, 
85-6 

Health to Them That's Awa, vi, 

477 

Heardred, xlix, 67, 72 and note 3 

Hearing, art of, ii, 147 (81); speak- 
ing and, 182 (6) 

Heart, Descartes on motion of the, 
xxxiv, 39-45; in the foetus, 
xxxviii, 135, 139, 143-4; Harvey 
on motions and uses of the, 64- 
147; Harvey on structure of the, 
138-45, 147; importance of the, 
145; in lower animals, 137-8, 140; 
lungs and, 68, 73-6, 93, 94, 95-9» 
105, 138-9; nourishment of the, 
106; the seat of life, 89 

Heart's Compass, xlii, 1227 

Heart's Hope^ xlii, 1225 



262 



GENERAL INDEX 



Hearth-money, x> 517 

Heat, Berkeley on real existence of, 
xxxvii, 205-10, 211; chemical ac- 
tion of, XXX, 218; dependent on 
expansion and compression, 2.22-z\ 
Descartes on, xxxiv, 37-8; effect 
of, on cohesion, xxx, 38-40, 42; 
evolved from chemical affinity, 
81-2; Faraday on, 59-61; gener- 
ated by friction and impact, 205- 
6; Locke on endurance of, xxxvii, 
lo-ii, 14; mechanical equivalent 
of, xxx, 207-9; mechanical power 
produced by, 198-202, 204-5; me- 
chanical theory of, 209-10, 242; 
from moonlight, z^z'y as motion, 
theory of, 209-10; old theory of, 
202-4; Pascal on, xlviii, 125 
(368) ; produced by combustion 
of carbon, xxx, 210-11; produced 
by combustion of hydrogen, 212, 
213-14; produced by electrical 
currents, 215; production of, in 
New Atlantis, iii, 186; radiant, 
xxx, 271-2; transference and con- 
duction of, 70-2 

Heaven, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
158-9; Bernard of Morlaix on, 
xlv, 560-1; Browne on, iii, 314- 
15; Browne on hope of, 312-13, 
317-18; Browning on, xlii, 1114; 
Bunyan on, xv, 18, 163-4, 232; 
Burns on, vi, 146; compared to 
mustard seed, iii, Tj'y Darwin on, 
xxix, 301; Fitzgerald on, xli, 
082; gate of, Milton on, iv, 150-1; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 359; Kempis 
on, vii, 325 (3, 4), 326, 330; Lu- 
ther on, xxxvi, 266; Milton on, 
iv, 198, 199, 200, 207; Rousseau 
on, xxxiv, 2^2'^ saints in, vii, 
346-7 

Heavenly Bodies, Revolutions of 
THE, xxxix, 55-60 

Heavens, Dante's ten, xx, 294 
note 3 

Hebe, and Heracles, xxii, 167; 
Keats on, xli, 896; references to, 
iv, 22y 22; xl, 249 

Heber, Reginald, Hymns by, xlv, 
577-9 

Hebrew Literature, Milton on, iv, 
408; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 321 

Hebrew Prophets, piety and gross- 
ness of the, v, 175 

Hebrew Sacred Writings, xliv, 71- 
354 

Hebrews, Raleigh on history of, 
xxxix, 118 (see also Israelites, 
Jews) 

Hebron, seat of giants, iv, 422 

Hecataios, the historian, xxxiii, 73 

Hecate, in Macbeth, xlvi, 345, 348; 
Virgil on, xiii, 220 

Hectic Fever, Machiayelli on, xxxvi, 
xa 



Hector, and AJax, v, 97; Burke on, 
xxiv, 134; Caxton on, xxxix, 21; 
Chaucer on, xl, 43; in Dante's 
Hell, xx, 20; Dares Phrygius on, 
xiii» 34; ghost of, appears to 
.^Eneas, 112-13; Shelley on Ho- 
mer's, xxvii, 352-3 

Hecuba, at death of Priam, xlvi, 
130; madness of, xx, 125; in sack 
01 Troy, xiii, 121 

Hedge, F. H., translator of Lu- 
ther's Hymn, xlv, 570 

Hedwig, in Wilhelm Tell, xxvi, 
416-19, 442-3, 444» 467-70, 473 

Heedless, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 251, 307-8 

Hegel, on civil history, v, 455; on 
planetary motions, xxx, 294; 
Taine on, xxxix, 452 

Hegesias, and Diogenes, xxxii, 60 

Height, less grand than depth, xxiv, 

, 63-4 

Heimer of Hlymdale, xlix, 327, 336 

Heimskringla, Emerson on the, v, 
356-7 

Heine, Taine on, xxxix, 435 

Heineccius, on Roman Law, xxv, 

4.6 . 

Heinsius, on Horace, xiii, 12 

Helen, To, xlii, 1275-6 

Helen of Kirconnell, xl, 333-4 

Helen of Troy, ^schylus on, viii, 
7, 19-20, 30-2; Burke on Homer's 
description of, xxiv, 143-4; Dante 
on, XX, 2^', Darley on, xli, 939; 
Deiphobus and, xiii, 228-9; in 
Faustus, xix, 236-7, 238-9; He- 
rodotus on, xxxiii, 54-9; in the 
Odyssey, xxii, 51-6, 211, 212-13; 
Proteus and, xxxiii, 54-7; Theseus 
and, xxvi, 128; in siege of Troy, 
xiii, 122-3; xxii, 54, 55; vest of, 
xiii, 98; wife of Thone and, Iv, 
64 

Helena, Jove-born, iv, 64 (see Helen 
of Troy) 

Helenor, the Trojan, death of, xiii, 
315-16 

Helenus, in ^Eneid, xiii, 141, 1421 
143-6; Dryden on, 21 

Helgi Hunding's-Bane, in the VoL- 
sung Tale, xlix, 291-3, 294-5; 
Second Lay of, 385-92; remarks 
on Lay of, 266-7 

Helgi, the Norseman, xliii, 17-19 

Helice, reference to, xx, 417 note 5 

Heliocentric Theory, xxxix, 55 note 

Heliodorus, Dante on, xx, 231 and 
note 18; Sidney on, xxvii, 15 

Heliogabalus, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 
70 

Heliometer, Newcomb on the, xxx, 
330 

Heliopolis, city of, xxxiii, 8, 33, 34 

Helios, giver of light, xxii, 140^ 
herds of, 155; kine of, 172, 177-8; 



GENERAL INDEX 



263 



wrath of, at the Greeks, 178-9; 
worshipped in Egypt, xxxiii, ;i3 
Helios le Grose, xxxv, 159 
Helizeus, More on, xxxvi, 165 
Hell, -^neas's visit to, xiii, 220-32; 
Browne on, iii, 315-17; Browne on, 
fear of, 312-13, 317-18; Buddhist 
ideas of, xlv, 701-4; Bunyan on, 
XV, 232; Burke on paintings of, 
xxiv, 56; Burke on Virgil's pic- 
ture of, 64; Burns on the fear 
of, vi, 213; Burns on, orthodox 
ideas of, 107; Dante's, xx, 5-146; 
Kempis on, vii, 242 (3, 4) ; Kem- 
pis on fear of, 244 (7) ; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 266; Marlowe on, xix, 
215; Mill on notion of, xxv, 32; 
Milton's description of, iv, 91-2, 
96, 125-6, 127, 133, 228-9; Mil- 
ton's, Burke on, xxiv, 146; Mo- 
hammed on, xlv, 890-1, 894, 897, 
899, 902, 903, 906-8, 911, 923, 
946, 958, 987; Omar Khayyam 
on, xli, 982, 986; Pascal on belief 
in, xlviii, 88-9; Raleigh on 
thoughts of, xl, 207; Rousseau 
on, xxxiv, 273-4 
Hell> How Love Looked for, xlii, 

1479-82 
HeIvLAS, by Shelley, xli, 846-7 
Hellenes, John de, xxxv, 50 
Hellenion, in Egypt, xxxiii, 90 
Hellenora, Spenser's, xxxix, 68 
Hellespont, Dante on the, xx, 262 
Hellusians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

123 
Helm Gunnar, xlix, 321, 415 
Helmholtz, On Conservation of 
Force, xxx, 181-220; on the eye, 
xi, 214; Ice and Glaciers, xxx, 
22i-5p; life and works, 180 
Help, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

19 
Help, must come from self, v, 23 ; 

to those who help themselves, 

xvii, 36 
Helper, yonder aids the helper here, 

XIX, 43 
Helpidius, vii, 79 
Helvetians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

III 
Helvetius, Mill's abstract of, xxv, 

Ilelvia, mother of Cicero, xii, 225 
Helvicus, tables of, xxxvii, 168 
Helvidius, death of, ix, 250; Life, 
by Senecio, 323; Pliny on, 354-5 
Hely, Mrs., and Pepys, xxviii, 299 
Helymus, in the ^Eneid, xiii, 184, 

192-3 
Heman the Ezrahite, maschil of, 

xliv, 258 
Hemi-organism, xxxviii, 322-4, 370 
Heminge, John, Preface to Shake- 
speare, xxxix, 155-6 
Hemionus, descent of the, xi, 171-4 



Hemistichs, Drydcn on, xiii, 65-6 
Hemorrhages, Harvey on, xxxviii, 

Hempe in prophecy indicating sove- 
reigns of England, iii 96 
Hemphill, Franklin on, i, 98-99 
Hen, and chickens, parable of the, 

XV, 207 
Henchman, Humphrey, on George 

Herbert, xv, 403 
Henderson, Matthew, Elegyi on, vi, 

406 
Hengest, the Dane, xlix, 35 note 5, 
36, 37-8; Vortizem weds daughter, 
of, V, 286 
Henley, William Ernest, Poems by, 

xlii, 1257-60 
Hennings, in Faust, xix, 180 
Henpecked Country Squire, Epi- 
grams ON A, vi, 62-3 
Henpecked Husband, The, vi, 343 
Henriquez, Don Martin, xxxiii, 134 
Henry I, Raleigh on, xxxix, 75 
Henry II, of England, and Becket, 
xxxix, 172 note 21; sons of, iii, 

53 

Henrjr II, of France, Cellini on, 
xxxi, 295 note, 313; death fore- 
told, iii, 96; expedition against 
Hesdin, xxxviii, 22; expedition to 
Germany, 19; Montgomery and, 
xxxiii, 193; Pare and, xxxviii, 23- 
4> 35» 45-6; siege of Danvilliers, 
20-2 

Henry III, of England, Dante on, 
XX, 176 and note 15; and the 
Jews, V, 360; Oxford students 
and, xxxv, 394 

Henry III, of France, Bacon on, 
iii> 39; Montaigne on regime of, 
xxxii, 121; Raleigh on, xxxix, 77, 
87; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 88 

Henry IV, Emperor, and Gregory 
VII, xxxvi, 308 note 25 

Henry IV, of England, and Chau- 
cer, xxxix, 171; Raleigh on, 76- 

77 
Henry IV, of France, and Acevedo, 

xxi, 12; Burke on, xxiv, 196, 284; 

compared with Lincoln, xxviii, 

450-1; on manly exercises, v, 363; 

murder of, xxxix, 3771 plots 

against, xxxiv, 88-9 
Henry V, at Agincourt, xl, 227-8, 

229, 230; Falstaff and, vi, 219; 

Macaulay on, xxvii, 395-6; Ra- 
leigh on, xxxix, 77 
Henry VI, of England, Cambridge, 

founder of colleges at, xxxv, 401; 

death of, xxxix, 77^ 79; Raleigh 

on, 77-8 
Henry VI, of France, iii, 136 
Henry VII, of Cyprus, xx, 370 note 

21 
Henry VII, Emperor, Dante on, xx, 

415 note 6; death of, xxxiv, 88; 



264 



GENERAL INDEX 



married to Constance, xx, 298 
note 7 

Henry Vll, of England, and John 
Cabot, xliii, 47 note, 48, 50; 
chapel of, xxxv, 394; councillors 
of, iii, 57; greatness of, foretold, 
96; King's College founded by, 
xxxv, 401; law of farmers, iii, 
79; liberator, 136; mastiff and 
falcon of, xxxv, 372; Sir Thomas 
More and, xxxvi, 95; nobility 
and, iii, 54; Perkin Warbeck and, 
xxxiv, 103; Raleigh on, xxxix, 
80-1 ;_ suspiciousness of, iii, 86; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 91-2 

Henry VIII, and the abbevs, xxiy, 
264-5; Anne Bullen and, xxxvi, 
107, 116, 119; Bentham on times 
of, xxvii, 240; Burke on, xxiv, 
422-5 ; Canterbury nun and, xxxvi, 
120; Catherine, legality of mar- 
riage with, 107-9, 1 10 J Christ's 
College founded by, xxxv, 402; 
Latimer and, v, 390; Sir Thomas 
More and, xxxvi, 96, 97-100, 102, 
103, III, 117, 119, 120, 122-4 125, 
127, 130, 134, 139; More on, 143; 
More on marriage of, 104, 107-8, 
no, 1 15-16, 119; More on Su- 
premacy Act of, 128-9, 135-6; 
Protestantism ^ in England not 
founded by, iii, 268; Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 81-2; Sacraments, his book 
on the, xxxvi, 123-4; severity of, 
xxxv, 389; studdery of, 346; on 
subversion of colleges, 403-4; on 
supremacy of the Pope, xxxvi, 
124; Trinity College founded by, 
xxxv, ..401; in triumvirate of 
kings, iii, 52; Wolsey and, xxxvi, 

IIO-II 

Tlenry of the Haldcn, xxvi, 388-9 
Henry of Luxemburg, xx, 170 note 

II 
Henry of Navarre, Dante on, xx, 

175 

Henry, son of Richard of Almaine, 
XX, 53 note 10 

Henslowe, Philip, Dekker and, xlvii, 
445; Massinger and, 818; Web- 
ster and, 445 

Heorogar, xlix, 7, t8, 66 

Heorot, the hall of Hrothgar, xlix, 
7 note I 

Hephsestion, and Proaeresius, xxviii, 
55; proctor of Oriental school, 
60 

Hephaestos, Prometheus and, viii, 
158 note; in Prometheus Bound, 
157-9; the snare of, xxii, 111-13; 
temple of, in Memphis;, xxxiii, 49, 
53. S9» 69, 72, '/9 (see also Vul- 
can) 

Hephestion, and Alexander, xlvi, 25 

Her Flowing Locks, vi, 116 

Her Gifts, xlii, 1227-8 

Hera, guardian of marriage-bed, viii, 



123; the peacock sacred to, 176 
note 37 (see also Juno) 
Heracleon, the Megarian, xxxii, 51 
Heracles (see Hercules) 
Heracles, in The Frogs, viii, 420-4 
Heraclides Ponticus, ^ philosopher, 
xxxii, 60; on motion of earth, 
xxxix, 58 
Heraclitus, death of, ii, 207 (3) ; 
Democritus and, iii, 330; on gen- 
eration, ii, 221 (46); on incre- 
dulity, xii, 190; to judges, ii, 135 
(54); in Limbo, xx, 20; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 257 (3); on the 
sleepers, 242 (42) 
Heraclitus, by Cory, xlii, 1159 
Heraldry, the boast of, xl, 456; re- 
marks on, xxviii, 428 
Herbert, George, birth and family 
of, XV, 377-8; charity of, 413; 
childhood and education, 379; 
church at Layton Ecclesia, 391- 
2; church services by, 405-7, 409; 
clerk of Bemerton, 398-9; college 
career, 384-5; consumption of, 395- 
6, 4i4-i5» 419-21; deacon, 391; 
death of, 421-3; Emerson on, v, 
148; Farrer, Nicholas, letter to, 
XV, 425-6; friendships with Bacon, 
Andrews, Wotton, and Donne, 
387-8; health, infirmity of, 389; 
on Holy Days, 407-9; Life of, 
by Walton, 377-426; life, sanctity 
of his, 399-400; marriage, 396-8; 
mother, letter to his, 393-5; music, 
love of, 410; parson, rules as, 
403-4; Poems by, 382, 383, 389, 
402, 421; xl, 351-6; poor woman 
and, XV, 401-2; prayer, habits of, 
409-10; Sacred Poems, 358-9, 400- 
I, 419-20; Salisbury walks, inci- 
dents of, 411-12; sermons, 404; 
sinecure given by James, 388; 
successor, lines to his, 402; as 
university orator, 385-7; wife of 
(see Danvers, Jane) 
Herbert, Henry, xv, 378, 392, 395 
Herbert, Magdalen, mother of 
George, xv, 377-8, 379-8o; death 
of, 396; Donne, friendship with, 
380-3; letter to, 393-5; son, re- 
lations with her, 389, 391-2 
Herbert, Thomas, xv, 378-9 
Herbert, Rev. W., on hybrids, xi, 
301-2; on origin of species, 12; 
on struggle among plants, 77 
Herborg, Queen, xlix, 352-3 
Herbs, Harrison on, xxxv, 251-2 
Hercules, Alcestis and, xli, 680; 
amours of, xii, 363; Antaeus and, 
iv, 413; xiv, 21; XX, 1^2 note 6; 
birth of, xxii, 159; Cacus and, 
xiii, 279-81; Cerberus and, xx, 
39 note; viii, 422, 433; character 
of, V, 192; compass, and the, 476; 
date of, xxxiii, 74-5; as Egyptian 



GENERAL IXDEX 



265 



fod. xxxiii, 26S, 42; as king of 
•^'pt. 3cxx\Tii, 407; envenomed 
robe of, iv, 124; Epictetus on, ii, 
143 CrO; faith of, 162 (125); 
genealogy of, viii, 182 note 50, 
1S6; as a German ^od, xxxiii, 100; 
in Germany, 96; in Hades, xxii, 
167-8; Hylas and, xl%-i, 9, 25; 
lole and, xx, 324; Iphitus and, 
xxii, 295-6; the Maenad and. Tiii, 
310; Nessus and, xx, 52 note; 
parentage of, xii, 5; the" pigroies 
and, xxxix, 365; Pillars ol. Taci- 
tus on, xxxiii, 115; Prometheus 
and, iii, 17; viii, 182, 186 note 
63; Rhea and. xiii, 266; Virgil on, 
238, 281-2; Waller on death of, 
xxxiv, 149; Zeus and, xxxiii, 
26 
Hercules, and the Waggoner; a 

fable, xvii, 36 
Herder, quotation from, xxxii, 409 
Herdsman's Song, from Wilhelm 

Tell, xxvi, 370 
Hereafter, Arnold on doubt of the, 
xlii, 1 185; Buddha on questions 
of the. xlv, 662-7, 675-6; Emer- 
son on popular views of the, v, 
89-90; Epictetus on the, ii, 158 
(112), 181 (188); Epicurus on 
the, xxxvii, 423-4; Euripides on 
the, viii, 294-5; Goethe on the, 
xix. 64-5; Hindu idea of, xlv, 
835-7» 840, 865; hope of the, xl, 
420; Kempis on the, vii, 325; 
242-4, Mohammed on, xlv, 892, 
S93-..?96, 926; Montaigne on the, 
xxxii, 25; Omar Khayyam on the, 
xli, 972, 976. 070. 981, 9S2, 983, 
9S4» 9S5, 987; Pascal on question 
of, adviii, 70-2, 76, 77 (200), 79 
(213), 80 (217'*; the philosophers, 
ii, 76-7; Pope on the, xl, 445-6; 
Raleigh on the, xxxix, 97; Rous- 
seau on the, xxxiv, 271-4, 285-6; 
sailors' idea of, xxiii, 40-1 ; Shake- 
speare on the, xl, 268; xlvi, 135, 
167; Shelley on. xviii, 350-1; 
Socrates on, ii. 2S, 51. 58, 104-5. 
iio-ii; Vaughan on the, xl, 355-7 
(see also Heaven. Hell, Paradise, 
Pur^^tory, Hades) 
Hereditary Princedoms, Machiavelli 
on, xxxvi, 7-8; Pascal on, xh-iii, 
112 (320) 
Heredity. Darwin on laws of. xi, 
31-2;^ in habit and instinct. 267- 
70; in individual differences. 59; 
in mutilations, 148; in variations, 
30-1 
Heremod. xlix. 30. 53-4 
Herennius. and Cicero, xii. 267 
Here's a He.\lth to King Charles, 

>^li. 773 
Here's a He-klth to Them That's 
Aw A, vi, 477 



Here's His Health in Water, ri, 

191 
Here's to thy Health, vi, 28-9 
Heresies, Augustine, St., on. vii, 

120; Bacon on, iii, 11 -12; Bro^Tie 

on. 26g'72; Hobbes on. xxxiv. 

388; Mill on, XXV, 249-52; Pascal 

on, xlviii, 306, 307; speculative, 

iii. 145 
Heretics, Bums on, vi, 223; in 

Dante's Hell, xx, 40, 117-18; 

Hobbes on covenants with, xxxiv, 

421; Luther on, xxx^-i, 335; 

Pascal on, xlviii, 296 (841), 300 

(845), 303. 306. 307 
Hericault, Charles d', on classics, 

xx%-iii, 68-9 
Herilus, and Evander. xiii, 291 
Heriulf, the Norseman, xliii, 5, 6 
Herman, in Manfred^ xviii, 431, 
^ 436, 437-9 
Hermann and Dorothea, Goethe's, 

xix, 335-431; remarks on, 334; 1, 

25 
Hermaphrodites, Darwin on, 3d, 

109-10, 113 
Hermes, guard of the dead, viii, 

96, 100; herald of heaven, 2^, 

76; Herodotus on worship of, 

xxxiii, 30-1; in the Odyssey, xxii, 

10, 72-5, 113, 143-4, 331; in Pro- 
metheus Bound, viii, 189-93; 

rod of. ii, 156 (106); iv, 326; 

slayer of Argos, xxii, 11; Uljrsses 

and, iv, 63 
Hermes Trismegistus (see Trisme- 

gistus) 
Herminius, death of, xiii, 384 
Hermione, Homer on, xxii, 48; 

Milton on. vi. 276 
Herminones, Tacitus on the. xxxi ii, 

95-<5 
Hermippus, accuser of Aspasia, adi, 

70 
Hermits. Bums on life of, vi, 207; 

in Milton's limbo, iv, 150 
Hermodius, and Aristogiton, xxxii, 

Hermogenes, precocity of, iii, 1 1 1 ; 

with Socrates, ii. 47 
Hermondurians, Tacitus on the, 

xxxiii, 119 
Hernandez. Gonzalo, xiv, 319, 513 
Hemon. murderer of Phrj-nichus, 

xii, 136 
Hemox. Earl, xxxv, 202-3 
Hero-worship. Carlyle on, xxv, 410- 

II 
Herod, the king, xliv, 456 (l^, 457 

(19-23); believed to be Messiah, 

xlviii. 269 (753); gold raised, iv. 

386; Pascal on. xh-iii. 238 (700), 

239 (701); persecution of. xliv, 

456 d'); son of, xlviii. 66 (179); 

in "war of Antony and Octavius, 

Mi, 383, 391, 393' 



266 



GENERAL INDEX 



Herod, tetrarch of Galilee, xliv, 

365 (i), 366 (19), 3S3 (7-9^; 

Tesus and. 398 (31-2), 421 (7-1 1); 

Pilate and, 4.21 (12) 

Herodes Atticus, xxviii. 61-2 

Herodias, and John the Baptist, 

xliv, 366 (19) 

Herodicus, and Hippocrates, xxxriii, 2 

Herodotus. Ax Accx>rxT of Egypt, 

xxxiii. 5-91; editorial remarks on 

AccouxT of, 1, 18; Hxi^o on, 

xxxix, 358; life and histories, 

xxxiii. 3-4; Snelley on, xxA-ii, 

35-: Sidney on, 9; Thenristodes 

and, ix. 107-8 

Heroes, Emerson on our love of, v, 

19; Lowell on, xlii, 1450. 1451: 

of poems, Dryden on, xviii, 11; 

Popc^ on, xl, 447; Thoreau on, 

xxviii, 421; Yu-tzu on, xliv, 6 

(13) 
Heroic Poetry, Sidney on, xxvii, 

31-2 
Heroism. Essay ox, v, 125-^5 
Heron, Mr., son-in-law oil More, 

xxxvi. 112 
Hekon Electiox Baixads, vi, ^56- 
^63, ^87 
Herrick, Robert, Poems by, xl, 343- 

50 
Herschel, Sir John, work of, v, 

374 
Herthom, German goddess, xxxiii, 

118-19 
Hernty, Wilxiam, On the Death 

CF. xl. 376-8 

He's Owe* the Hills that I Lo'e 
Weel, xli, 573-4 

Hesdin, siege of, xxxviii, 35-9; de- 
struction of, 45 

Hesiod, Cicero on, ix, 66; Clauserus 
on, xxvii, 54; on his estate, 71; 
Greek theogony due to, xxxiii, 
31; Herodotus on time of, 31; 
quoted, ii, 297 (32) ; Sainte-Beuve 
on, xxxii, 136; Sidney on, xxvii, 
8: Socrates on, ii, 28; teachings 
of, viii, 451 

Hesione, wife of Prometheus, viii, 
167 note 20, 175 

Hesperian Tree, Milton on the, iv, 

Hesperus, gardens of, iv, 73, 152 
Hesperus, the star, iv, 172, 265 
Hesperus, The Wreck of the, xlii, 

1321 
Hester, by Lamb, xli. 753 
fieteronomy of the Will, xxxii. 364; 

spurious principles of morality due 

to, 363-4. 371-5 
Hetwaras, xlix, 72 note 2, 87 
Heuer, Sir Roger, xl. loi 
Heusinger, on effects of color, xi, 

30 
Hey, Ca* Thro*, boat song, vi, 278-9 
Heyne, Carlyle on, xxv, 392-3 
fieywood, Thomas, Hazlitt on» xxvii. 



291; Pack, Clouds, Away, xl, 
_3^-5 

Hezekiah, Bunyan on. xv. 135; in 
Dante's Par.\dise, xx, 37^; Wal- 
ton on, XV, 361 
Hibernation, Darwin on, xxix, no- 

11: Harvey on. xxxviii, 90, 138 
Hic BiLZ\-E V'lviTUR. xlv, 560-1 
Hickey, Goldsmith on, xli, 518, 521 
Hickson. Mr.. Mill on. xxv, 14-! 
Hide-curing, Dana on, xxiii, 156-7 
Hides, price of, x. 201-^ 
Hiera. and Alcanor, xiii, 320 
Hierius. Augustine, St., on. vii, 58-9 
Hiero of Syracuse, Machiavelli on, 
xxxvi, 22-3: the poets and. xxvii, 
41; Themistodes and, xii, 27; 
troops of, xxxv i, 48 
Hicroclc's, the pedant in, xxxix, 221 
Hierome, St., and Paula, xv, 381 
HieronjTQUs Fabricius, xxxviii, 68, 
75 

HiGHLAXD BaLOU. ThE. vi, 523 

HiGHi_\XD Girl, To the, xli, 668-70 
Highland H.\rry Back Ag-\in, vi, 

378 
Highl.\vd M.kry, vi, 472 
Highl.\xd Widow's Lament, vi, 

5-24-5 
Highlands, Ix the, xlii, 1260-1 
High-mind, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 101-2 
Highways (see Roads) 
Hilarity, of heroism, v, 131 
Hilarius, a Bithynian, xxviii. 60 
Hilary, on the true church, xxxix, 

Hildeburh, xlix, ^5'^ note 5, 37. 38 
Hildegard, in Wilhelm Tell, xxvi, 

424. 427-8 
Hill, Gen. A. P.. at Gettysburg, 

xliii, 365, 366, 370 
Hilton, \Valter, as author of Imita- 
tion OF Christ, vii, 208 
Hiraeraeus. death of. xii, 221 
Hind Horn, a ballad, xl, 59-61 
Hindoos, Freeman on name of, 

xxviii, 281; idea of world, 428; 

Taine on the, xxxix, 444 
Hinduism, xlv, 800 (see also Bhaga- 

vad-Gita) 
Hinny, origin of the, xi, 329^^ 
Hipparchus. Huxley on, xxviii, 227', 

Marcus Aurelius on. ii, 244 (47); 

on precession of equinoxes, xxxiv, 

131 
Hipparchus, freedman of Antony, 

^^- 3^9 
Hipparete, wife of Alcibiades, xii, 

116-17 
Hipparion. Darwin on the, xi, 378 
Hippias, the comedian, xii, 341 
Hippias of Elis, ii, 5; wealth of, x, 

142 
Hippo, the dolphin of, ix, 368-70 ^^ 
Hippocoon, in the ^Exeid, xiii, 

198^ 




<:« 



vm 



rr 



268 



GENERAL INDEX 



Mill on, XXV, 28; in Utopia, 
xxxvi, 246 

Holinshed, Raphael, his Chronicles, 
XXXV, 228; selection from Chroni- 
cles, 229-404 
Holland, Burke on French invasion 
of, xxiv, 441-2; Burke on nobility 
of, 441; Goldsmith on, xli, 540-1; 
interest in, x, 96-7; republican 
government, importance of, to, 
573; taxation in, 523; trade, at- 
titude toward, in, 102 

Holland, Lord, anecdote of, v, 198 

Holland, Sir John, xxxv, 74 

Holland, Sir Thomas, xxxv, 9, 13, 
i^, 17, 23 

Holly-trees, and bees, xi, 107 

Holmes, Oliver Wendell, life and 
works, xxxviii, 234; Poems by, 
xlii, 1442-7; On Puerperal 
Fever, xxxiii, 235-68; editor's re- 
marks on Puerperal Fever of, 1, 
45; Sunday Hymn, xlv, 584 

Holmes, Robert, i, 29, 52 

Holy Cross, royal way of the, vii, 
263-7 

Holy Communion, Kempis on the, 
vii, 349-79 

Holy Fair, The, vi, 101-8 

Holy Ghost, Calvin on the, xxxix, 
53; Charlemagne on, xlv, 559-60; 
Hobbes on the, xxxiv, 432 

Holy Grail, The, by Malory, xxxv, 
107-226; Caxton on, xxxix, 25 

Holy Grail, Don Quixote on quest 
of, xiv, 515; legends of the, xxxii, 
171-4 

Holy-man, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 285, 287 

Holy Roman Empire, Luther on, 
xxxvi, 343-7 

Holy Thing, That, xlii, 1163-4 

Holy Things, Tsai Wo on, xhv, 11 
(21) 

Holy Thursday, Walton on, xv, 408 

Holy Thursday, xli, 605 

Holy Tulyie, The, vi, 67-70 

Holy Willie, Epitaph on, vi, 78; 

Holy Willie's Prayer, vi, 75-78 

Holyoake, George Jacob, xxv, 2^2 
note 3 

Holystones, described, xxiii, 186 

Homage, Pascal on, xlviii, 386 

Home, Locke on education at, 
xxxvii, 53-8; prized first at even- 
ing, xix, 47; Ruskin on, xxviii, 150 

Home They Brought Her Warrior 
Dead, xlii, 1004 

Home-Thoughts, from Abroad, xlii, 
I no 

Home-Thoughts, from the Sea, 
xlii, mo 

Homer, accused of drunkenness, 
xxyii, 374; on agriculture, ix, 66; 
Aristophanes on, viii, 451; Arnold 
on, xxviii, 72-3, 80; Augustine, 



St., on, vii, 17, 18; Bacon on, 
iii, 106; Burke on, xxiv, 133-4; 
Burke on similes of, 18; Caxton 
on, xxxix, 9; claimed by seven 
cities, xxvii, 40; Clauserus on, 54; 
on country life, 71-2; Dante on, 
xxxix, 370; the dramatists and, 
xiii, 6-7; Dryden on, 15, 25, 27, 
34, 44; xl, 406; Emerson on, v, 
149, 186, 188; Greek theogony due 
to, xxxiii, 31; Fielding on, xxxix, 
184; the fisherman and, iii, 336; 
Greek tragedies and, xxxix, 359, 
365; Herodotus on time of, xxxiii, 
31; heroes of, xxxix, 360; Hugo 
on, 357, 370, 371, 406; Hume on 
ethics of, xxvii, 216; intelligible- 
ness of, xxxix, 260; Johnson on, 
219; Keats on Chapman's trans- 
lation of, xli, 919-20; Lang on, 
xxii, 347; life of, 3; in Limbo, 
XX, 19; the Alargites of, iii, 210; 
Alilton on, iv, 406; The Odyssey 
of, xxii; oldest ballad singer, vi, 
137 note; on Paris, xxxiii, 56- 
7; Pascal on, xlviii, 212 (628); 
Pliny on, ix, 284, 364-5; Sainte- 
Beuve on, xxxii, 132, 136; Shel- 
ley on, xxvii, 352-3> 359; Sidney 
on, 8, 14, 39; Spenser on, xxxix, 
65; Socrates on, ii, 28; universal 
admiration of, xxvii, 220; Virgil 
and, xiii, 6, 40-2, 48; xxxix, 164-7 
Homologies, serial, xi, 474-6 
Homologous Parts, xi, 156 
Honest, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 
176, 254-66, 271, 280-1, 283-4, 
290-1, 309-11, 316, 319 
Honest Man, Burns on the, vi, 
III, 546; "the noblest work of 
God," 147, 254; xl, 447 
Honesty, Bacon on, iii, 8; forced, 
i, 406; fortune and, iii, 105; Ham- 
let on, xlvi, 122, 123; instruction 
in, xxxvii, 98; Kant on pure, 
xxxii, 327-8; Mohammed on, xlv, 
927; want and, i, 96 
Honeycomb, Will, xxvii, 92-3 
Honor, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

135-7 

Honor, Burns on, vi, 214; com- 
merce and, xli, 535; Dante on 
love of, XX, 311 note 25; Dryden 
on, xl, 403-4; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
378-83; Kempis on temporal, vii, 
318; Lessin§ on, xxvi, 347; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 59 (147); Pliny on 
loss of, ix, 350; venerableness of, 
V, 71-2 

Honors, Confucius on, xliv, 13 (5), 
23 (i5)» 27 (13); desire for, the 
strongest of motives, xxviii, 97; 
More on worldly, xxxvi, 211; 
Pope on, xl, 446, 448; Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 96, 97-8, loi 

Hood, Thomas, Bridge of Sighs 



GENERAL INDEX 



269 



by, xxviii, 398-400; Poe on Fair 
Inez of, 397-8; Poe on The 
Haunted House of, 398; Poems 
by, xli, 930-6 

Hood, William, Epitaph on, vi, 53 

Hooka, saying of, v, 317 

Hooker, General, xliii, 348, 439 

Hooker, Thomas, on change, xxxix, 
195; Jonson on, xxvii, 60; lan- 
guage of, xxxix, 206 

Hooker, Sir William J., on Au- 
stralian species, xi, 141 ; on cor- 
relation in flowers, 157; Darwin 
and, 22; on descent of species, 
19; on Galapagos species, 440; 
xxix, 419, 420; on glacial period, 
xi, 417, 420; on ovules, 224; on 
sexes in trees, 113 

Hope, allegory of, xx, 268 note 1 1 ; 
American lack of, v, 57; Burns 
on, vi, 455; Coleridge on, xxv, 
93; Dante on, xx, 394; Dante's 
star of, 179 note 9; Dryden on, 
xxxiv, 137; fear _ and, iv, 57; 
eternal fort of, xli, 503; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 353, 380; life on a 
single, ii, 183 (16); in music, xli, 
489; "never comes that comes to 
all,'* iv, 92; never satisfied, v, 
243-4; Penn on, i, 360 (235); 
Pope on, xl, 420, 433; Shelley's 
Beatrice on, xviii, 351; sweetness 
of, viii, 174; white-handed, iv, 52 

Hope, Thomas, xxv, 333 note i, 
356; Carlyle on Essay on Man of, 
362-5 

Hopeful, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 
103, 112, 114-27. 129, 131-5, 137- 
8, 140-8, 158-67 

Horace, accused of cowardice, xxvii, 
374; on affecting the passions, 
xxiv, 54; on art of poetry, xxvii, 
116; an astrologer, xxxix, 167; 
Augustus and, 171; on changes, 
xlviii, 121 note; cold baths of, 
xxxvii, 13; Dryden on, xiii, 53; 
Dryden on, epistles of, 12; Dry- 
den on translators of, xviii, 16- 
17; Greek examples followed by, 
18; on happiness, xlviii, ^^ note 
7; on himself, xxvii, 194-5; on 
instruction in taste, xxiv, 22; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 168; love of 
country life, xxvii, 7^; Montaigne 
on, xxxii, 92; Newman on, xxviii, 
54; on poetry, xxxii, 64; Sainte- 
Beuve on, 136; as a soldier, 116; 
on terror caused by wonders of 
nature, xxiv, 61; Voltaire on, 
xxxii, 138-9 

Horace, Duke, at Metz, xxxviii, 26; 
at Hesdin, 35, 37 

Horatii, Dante on the, xx, 308 
note 9 

Horatio, in Hamlet, xlvi, on watch 
&t Elsinore, 88-92; tells Hamlet 



of ghost, 97-100; on watch with 
Hamlet, 104-7; sworn to secrecy, 
110-12; with Hamlet, told to 
watch king, 140-1; with Hamlet 
after play, 146-7; on Ophelia, 
166; letter from Hamlet, 173; 
with Hamlet in grave-yard, 181- 
5; at Ophelia's funeral, 187; with 
Hamlet, hears of king's plot, 188- 
90; with Osric, 191, 192, 193; on 
the wager, 193; at the duel, 196, 
197-8; with Fortinbras, 198-9; in 
the ^ original story, 86 
Horatius, called Codes, xiii, 294 
Horn, Cape, Darwin on, xxix, 226-7 
Horn, Count, xix, 246 
Hornbills, instinct of, xi, 296 
Hornbook, Doctor, Death and, vi, 

79-84 ^ 
Horner, Francis, and Edinburgh 

Review, xxvii, 236 
Hornets, Harrison on, xxxv, 365 
Horoscopy, defined, xxxiv, 397 
Horse and Ass, fable of, xvii, 44 
Horse, Hunter, and Stag, fable of, 

xvii, 23 
Horse(s), descent of, xi, 171-4; de- 
scribed in Job, xliv, 138; of Eng- 
land, Harrison on, xxxv, 344-5; 
in Falkland Islands, xxix, 206; 
used by Germans in augury, 
xxxiii, loo-i; grease disease of, 
xxxviii, 153, 155 note 3; Pugliano 
on, xxvii, 7; races of, xi, 36; re- 
mains of, in S. America, xxix, 142- 
3; S. American, how broken, 164- 
8; amon^ the Tencterians, xxxiii, 
114; swimming power of, xxix, 
156; why not sublime, xxiv, 58 
Horsemanship, Locke on, xxxvii, 
183; Pugliano on, xxvii, 7; Web- 
ster on, xlvii, 725 
Horses and Cock, fable of, xxvii, 

143 

Hortensius, and Caesar, xii, 302; 
and Caius Antonius, brother of 
Mark Antony, 350; Cicero on, ix, 
96; iii, iii; at trial of Murena, 
xii, 255; Verres and, 231 

Hosea, prophecy of, xlviii, 233 

Hoskins, Jane, i, 192, 202 

Hospitality, Emerson on modern, 
V, 54; of heroism, 129-30; Homer 
on, xxii, 210; obligations from, i, 
209, 255; Penn on, 344 (54); 
Socrates on, ii, 178 (181) 

Hospitals, antiseptic treatment in, 
xxxviii, 281-2; in Utopia, xxxvi» 
196-7 

Host, Chaucer's, xl, 32 

Host, Epigram on a Kind, vi, 296 

Hottentots, food of, xxviii, 422; 
sight of, xxxiv, 178 

Houghton, Lord, Sonnet, xiii, 1098 

Hounds, Harrison on, xxxv, 369-70; 

House of Atreus, ^schylus's, viii, 



272 



GENERAL INDEX 



Hylas and Philonous, Dialogues 
OF, xxxvii, 199-302; remarks on, 
198 
Hyllus, death of, xiii, 413-14 
Hymen, references to, iv, 34, 337 
Hymettus, reference to, iv, 405 
Hymn, by Addison, xl, 410 
Hymn Before Sunrise, xli, 724-6 
Hymn of Cleanthes, ii, 185-6 
Hymn to Diana, xl, 306-7 
Hymn to God the Father, xl, 311- 

12 
Hymn on the Morning of the Na- 
tivity, iv, 7-15 
Hymns, of Christian Church, xlv, 
545-86; Augustine, St., on, vii, 
153; Herbert on, xv, 405-6 
Hypaius, Virgil on, xiii, 115, 118 
Hyperbolus, Aristophanes on, viii, 
435; banishment of, xii, 87; os- 
tracism of, 119-20 
Hyperides, the orator, ix, 214 note 
2; death of, xii, 221; Demosthenes 
and, 207 
Hyperion, reference to, xx, 383 
Hypermnaestra, and Lynceus, viii, 

186 note 
Hypocrisy, in Burns's Holy Fair, 
VI, 102-3; Fielding on, xxxix, 188; 
Jesus on, xliv, 391 (37-44). 39^ 
(1-3); Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 
209 (7); Milton on, iv, 155; Mo- 
hammed on, xlv, 995; in Pil- 
grim's Progress, xv, 43-6; in re- 
ligion, vi, loi; Webster on, xlvii. 

Hypocrite, The, by Moliere, xxvi, 

189-284 
Hypocrites, in Dante's Hell, xx, 

97-9; Moliere on, xxvi, 203, 204, 

268 
Hypotheses, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 

201 
Hypsipyle, and Jason, xx, 77; in 

Limbo, 239 note 8; Lycurgus and, 

254 note 
Hythloday, Raphael, xxxvi, 92, 143, 

145 et seq. ; Peter Giles on, 255, 

257 
I Do Confess Thou Art Sae Fair, 

vi, 457 
I Dreamed a Lay, vi, 21-2 
I Fear Thy Kisses, xli, 849-50 
I Gaed a Waefu' Gate Yestrefn, 

vi, 377 
1 Hae a Wife o' My Ain, vi, 

324 
I Hae Been at Crookieden, vi, 

447 
I Lo'ed Ne'er a Laddie But Ane, 

xli, 590-1 
I Love My Love in Secret, vi, 

363-4 
I Loved a Lass, xl, 340-1 
I Murder Hate, vi, 400 
I Promessi Sposi, Manzoni's, xxi 
I Reign in Jeanie's Bosom, vi, 334 I 



lacchus, hymn to, viii, 431; song 
to, in The Frogs, 428-9 

ladmon, master of -^^sop and Rho- 
dope, xxxiii, 68 

lago, Macaulay on, xxvii, 396-7 

Iambic Poetry, Sidney on, xxvii, 
29 

lapis, in the ^neid, xiii, 408-9 

lasion, and Demeter, xxii, 74 

lasius, born in Italy, xiii, 137 

Ibis, sacred in Egypt, xxxiii, 36, 
37, 39-40; described, 40 

Iblis, name of Satan, xvi, 9 note; 
xlv, 929 

Ibn-Abbas, companion of Moham- 
med, xvi, 162 note 

Ibn Hankal, on Sogd, v, 129-30 

Ibn Roschd, xx, 21 note 

Ibn-Sina (see Avicenna) 

Ibrahim, the sheykh, xvi, 221-36 

Icarius, father of Penelope, xxii, 
18, 69 

Ice, structure of compressed, xxx, 
250-1, 258-9; expansive power of, 
120-3; pliability of, 247-50, 257-8; 
regelation of, 244, 254-6; snow 
transformed to, 245-6; tempera- 
ture of, affected by pressure, 
242-3 

Ice and Glaciers, by Helmholtz, 
xxx, 221-59 

Icebergs, Dana's description of, 
xxiii, 310-11, 326; action of, on 
rocks, xxix, 268 note; use of, in 
disseminating seeds, xi, 410 

Iceland, birds of, xxix, 265; Chris- 
tianity in, xxxii, 179, 183; poets 
in, xxvii, 10 

Iceland Spar, crystallization of, 
xxx, 31; effect of, on polarized 
light, 34-5 

Ictinus, builder of Parthenon, xii, 
51 

Idaeus, in Hades, xiii, 227 

Idealism, Berkeley's xxxvii, 202- 
302; Emerson on, v, 46, 159-60, 

453 
Idealist, in Faust, xix, 182 
Ideals, Lowell on, xiii, 1459, 1464; 

xxviii, 474 
Ideas, abstract (see Abstract Ideas) ; 
association of, xxxvii, 322-3, 345- 
8, 349, 350; Berkeley on reality 
of, 201-302; Channing on, xxviii, 
345-7; defined by Hume, xxxvii, 
317; defined by Locke, 320 note; 
Descartes on reality of, xxxiv, 29, 
34; Goethe on exchange of, 
xxxix, 265-6; Hume on origin of, 
xxxvii, 318-20, 355-6, 369; In- 
nate, Hume on, 320 note; Plato 
on, ii, 94-6; power of origi- 
nating, xxxvii, 360-1, 363; Rela- 
tions of, 324; Rousseau on gen- 
eral, xxxiv, 187-8, 257; test of, 
xxxvii, 320, 356 



GENERAL INDEX 



273 



Ides, of March, xii, 327 

Idiots, in Limbo, iv, 150; Moham- 
med on care of, xlv, 981 note 4 

Idleness, Caxton on, xxxix, 6, 14; 
as a crime, xxv, 306; discontent- 
ment and, i, 147-8; More on, 
xxxvi, 191; Tenn on, i, 344 (57); 
Smith on, x, 275-7 

Idol, fable of the, xvii, 2y 

Idolatry, David on, xliv, 160 (4); 
Lessing on, xxxii, 196; Milton 
on, iv, 348; Mohammed on, xlv, 
926, 927, 928, 929; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 330; Paul, St., on, xlv, 

5^1 (4-5) , ^ 
Idomeneus, in the ^neid, xni, 135, 

i44» 370 

Idomeneus, historian, on Pericles, 
xii, 47 

Idris, Mohammed on, xlv, 922 

Idyllic Poetry, Wordsworth on, 
xxxix, 313-14 

If Doughty Deeds, xii, 544-5 

Ignatius, and the lions, xv, 268 

Igneous^ Rocks, production of, 
xxxviii, 414, 416, 440 

Ignis Fatuus, in Faust, xix, 162-3; 
Milton on, iv, 279-80 

Ignorance, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
29; is bliss, xl, 462; Epictetus 
on, ii, 139 (63); Hindu Krishna 
on, xlv, 864-5, _ 874, 878, 879; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 388-9; karma 
depends on, xlv, 639, 677-8, 683- 
4; Pascal on, xlviii, ii4-i5;Penn 
on, i, 337; Socrates's three kinds 
of, xxxix, 12 

Ignorance, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 128-9, 149-53. 167 

Iguana, Vespucci on the, xliii, 40 
note 

II Penseroso, iv, 35-9; Words- 
worth on, xxxix, 314 

Ilia, mother of Romulus and Re- 
mus, xiii, 84 

Iliad, Arnold on selections from 
the, xxviii, ^2-2,', Burke on heroes 
of the, xxiv, 133-4; Dryden on, 
xiii, 15; editorial remarks on, 
xxii, 3-4, 6; Mill on the, xxv, 12- 
13; Pascal on, xlviii, 212 (628); 
Poe on, xxviii, 384; Thoreau on, 
426 

Ilioneus, in the ^^neid, xiii, 79, 
93-5» 97, 250-1, 316 

I'll Aye Ca' in by Yon Town, vi, 

554 
I'll Go and Be a Sodger, vi, 38 
I'll Meet Thee on the Lea Rig, 

vi, 471 
Illumination, cause of, from flame, 

xxx, 110-14, 164 
Illuminato, Dante on, xx, 339 note 

31 
Ill-will, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

295 



Illyria, the modern Albania, xxviii, 
273 

Ilus, son of Mermerus, xxii, 16; in 
Hades, xiii, 233 

I'm O'er Young to Marry Yet, vi, 311 

Imagery, Burke on, xxiv, 53-4 

Images, Calvin on, xxxix, 39; Jam- 
blichus on, v, 173; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 329-30; not allowed in 
Utopia, xxxvi, 247 

Imagination, Bagehot on the, xxviii, 
184; Berkeley on, xxxvii, 2^2^ 
285; Burke on, xxiv, 9, 17-22; 
Descartes on train of, xxxiv, 330- 
4; Emerson on, v, 180, 184, 319- 
20; fancy and, xxxix, 316; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 325-30; Hume 
on, xxxvii, 316, 317, 343, 442; 
Kant on, xxxii, 366; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 248 (17), 249 
(29); Mill on, xxv, 100; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 34-7, 39; reason and, 
xxvii, 368, 370; Kenan on, xxxii, 
149, 190; Schiller on, 307-8; Shel- 
ley on, xxvii, 345; Wordsworth 
on, xxxix, 316-24, 349 

Imagination, Realities of, xxvii, 
304-10 

Imitation, Bacon on, iii, 31; Burke 
on passion of, xxiv, 44-5 ; Cole- 
ridge on, xxvii, 271; Emerson on, 
V, 39, 64, 84; fable of, xvii, 45; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 379; Jonson 
on, xxvii, 60; in nature, xi, 235, 
465-7; pleasure and pain from, 
xxxix, 234; power of, among sav- 
ages, xxix, 221 

Imitation of Christ, vii, 209-379; 
remarks on, 208; 1, ^2-z 

Immanuel's Land, xv, 59, 124 

Immaterialism, advantages of, xxxvii, 
296-8; possible objections to, 299- 
300 

Immodesty, Epictetus on, ii, 125 

{2Z), 164 (130) 

Immorality, commentaries on, xxxix, 
182 

Immortality, Arnold on unbelief in, 
xiii, 1185; Browne on, iii, 270 (7), 
302-3, 304-5; Browning on, xiii, 
1124; Buddha on question of , xlv, 
662-7, 675-6; Burns on, vi, 334, 
395; Carlyle on, v, 335; Cicero 
on, ix, 12, 74-6; Dante on cer- 
tainty of, XX, 316; Descartes on, 
xxxiv, 48; Egyptian belief in, 
xxxiii, 63 ; Emerson on, v, 248, 
304, 314; Franklin on, i, 80, 
94; Hindu idea of, xlv, 806- 
7; Hume on, xxxvii, 423-4; Les- 
sing on belief in, xxxii, 199-202, 
205-6, 208-9, 211; Marcus Aure- 
lius on possibility of, ii, 217 (21), 
252 (50); More on, xxxvi, 208, 
240-1 ; Omar Khayyam on, xii, 
981, 985; Pascal on question of. 



274 



GENERAL INDEX 



xlviii, 70-1, 80 (218-20); Paul, 
St., on, xlv, 523 (12-55); Penn 
on, 1, 379-80 (487-502); Rousseau 
on, xxxiv, 270-2; Shelley on, xli, 
884; Socrates on, ii, 28, 59-63, 
68-73, 78-81, 85-104; Voltaire on, 
xxxiv, 107; Xenophon on, ix, 75 

Immortality, Ode on Intimations 
OF, xli, 609-15 

Impact, heat produced by, xxx, 206; 
mechanical effects of inelastic, 
206-7 

Impartiality, Penn on, i, 373-4 

Impeachments, in United States, 
xliii, 193 (5), 194 (6, 7), 202 (4) 

Imperatives, defined, xxxii, 344; hy- 
pothetical and categorical, 345; of 
skill, prudence, and morality, 345- 
70; possibility of categorical, 384- 
6, 392-3, 395 

Imperfection, Pope on, xl, 420, 421, 

423. 425 

Impetuosity, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 
86 

Implacable, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 102 

Importation, of instruments and ma- 
terials encouraged, x, 424-9; re- 
straints on, 346, 348-69, 370-88, 

444 

Impossibilities, Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii, 230 (17) 

Impostors, in Dante's Hell, xx, 
125-8 

Imposts, under U. S. Constitution, 
xliii, 196 (8), 199 (2) 

Impressions, of childhood, xlviii, 
37; defined by Hume, xxxvii, 
317; the basis of ideas, 318-20, 
355-6, 369 

Imprisonment, Pascal on, xlviii, 57 

Impjrovement, Goethe on spirit of, 
xix, 358, 361, 376-7; Penn on, i, 
360 (227-32); Rousseau on fac- 
ulty of, xxxiv, 179-80; Woolman 
on, 1, 223 

Impudence, defined by Hobbes, 
xxxiv, 356 

Impulses, Alill on, xxv, 264-5 

Imran's Family, chapter of, xlv, 
962-79 

In Ccena Domini, papal bull, xxxvi, 
307 note 21 

Ina, and Peter's Pence, xxxiv, 90 

Inachus, river-god, viii, 71, 178 note 

Incas Bridge, in the Andes, xxix, 

354 

Inoarnation, Pascal on the, xlviii, 
173 (526) 

Incivility, Locke on, xxxvii, 129-31 

Inclination (s) , of children, xxxvii, 60- 
2, 89-90, 93-4, 96; Goethe on fol- 
lowing, xxxix, 278; defined by 
Kant, xxxii, 344 note; distin- 
guished from propensities, xxxii, 
356 note 

Income (see Revenue) 



Incom;)rehensible Truths, Pascal on, 

xlviii, 142, 438-9 
Inconsiderate, in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 299 
Inconsiderate, Mrs., in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 189-90 
Inconsistency, Emerson on, v, 65-6, 
70-1; Lowell on, xxviii, 454 (see 
also Consistency) 
Inconstancy, Pascal on, xlviii, 47 

(no), 48 (112) 
Inconstancy in Love, vi, 536-7 
Incontinence, in Dante's Hell, xx, 

22-5; in Purgatory, 251-2 
Incorporatio, defined, xxxvi, 298 
Increase, of organic beings, xi, 79- 

82; checks to, 82-5 
Incredulity, Heraclitus on, xii, 190 
Incrustations, Darwin on, xxix, 19- 

20 
Incubators, in Utopia, xxxvi, 184 
Incubus, invoked by Faust, xix, 52 
Incurables, in Utopia, xxxvi, 221 
Independence, Emerson on, v, 68, 
69. 72, 73» 78-9; of heroism, 134; 
verses on, by Burns, vi, 324 
Independence, Inscription for 

Altar of, vi, 563 
Independence and Resolution, xli, 

674-8 
Independence of Circumstances, 
Epictetus on, ii, 121 (14), 123 
(19), 124 (20), 126 (25), 127 
(3O. 130 (38), 133 (49), 168 
(141), 169 (144), 169 (145), 171 
(148), 172 (151), 180 (187, 188); 
Kempis on, vii, 222-3, 250, 253-4, 
254-5.. 307» 320-1, 335-6; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 202 (7, 9), 209 
(6), 212 (16), 213 (3), 224 (2), 
230 (18, 19, 20), 232 (29), 233 
(35. 36), 237 (16); 247 (16), 250 
(29), 252 (55), 254 (67), 255 
(68), 261 (32), 262 (^5), 263 
(41), 264 (45, 47) 265 (51), 271 
(13, 15), 274 (31, 32), 282 (13), 
286 (32, 33), 292 (11), 298 (i, 2), 

299 (3) 
Index, of Roman Church, iii, 206 
Indexing, Swift on, xxvii, 119 
India, British rule in, v, 488; cause 
of early civilization of, x, 27-8; 
rates of interest in, 99; under 
the mercantile company, yy\ re- 
ligion, philosophy, and art of, 
xxxix, 455, 457; shells as money 
in, X, 30; wealth of, ancient, 309 
Indian Air, Lines to an, xli, 850 
Indian Mutiny, incident of, xlii, 

1229-30 
Indian Summer, description of, v, 

233 
Indians, Bacon on barbarism of, iii, 
143; Chilian, xxix, 293, 296, 317- 
19; civility of, xxxvii, 135; Colum- 
bus on, xliii, 23, 24-5, 26-7; under 
control of Congress, 174, 196 (3); 



GENERAL INDEX 



275 



drunkenness among, 153; Eliot on 
Christianity among, 147-56; fires, 
method of making, among, i, 148; 
houses of ancient, xxix, 377-8; 
medicines of, xxxv, 252 ; myths 
of, xvii, I ; Norsemen and (see 
Skrellings) ; Peruvian, xxix, 379, 
389; poets of, xxvii, 10; religion 
of, iii, 45; V, 286; xl, 420-1; rum 
among, 1, 121, 268-9; on servants, 
413 (268); S. American, xxix, 
75-6, 79-80, 83-4, II3-I7* 183-4, 
378-9, 392; Vespucci on, xliii, s^- 
45; Woolman's visit to, i, 265-81 

Indictments, in U. S., xliii, 207 
(5) 

Indifference, Buddha on, xlv, 612- 
i3» ^73> 728, 745; Burke on, xxiv, 
34; in Dante's Hell, xx, 14-15, 
221-2; Epictetus on, ii, 119 (8), 
133 (51); Hindu teaching of, xlv, 
806,810-11,825, 858, 866; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 203 (11, 12), 204 
(14), 213 (i), 215 (8), 216 (15), 
220 (39), 222 (49), 230 (20), 231 
(23), 240 (32), 242 (41), 244 
(52), 246 (3), 247 (14), 249 
(27), 250 (31), 257 (4), 259 (20), 
264 (46), 271 (17), 273 (28), 283 
(15), 284 (22, 23), 287 (34), 293 
(16); Pascal on, xlviii, 75-7, 77 
(200), 80 (217); Penn on, i, 374; 
Tennyson on, xlii, 1059; Whit- 
man on, xxxix, 416-17 

Indignation, Drake on, xxxiii, 133; 
defined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 354; 
language of, 358^ 

Individual, Franklin on power of 
the, i, 95; state and, ii, 230 (22), 
245. (54); y, 258 

Individual Differences, Darwin on, 
xi, 59-62, 93-6, 104-5 

Individuality, Channing on, xxviii, 
344-5; Cicero on, xlviii, 123 note 
7; democracy and, xxviii, 480-1; 
Emerson on, v, 22-4, 1 18-19, 122, 
i32-3f 19s; Epictetus on, ii, 119 
(8), 120 (9); Mar^'us Aurelius 
on, ii, 222 (49), 224 (3), 247 (15); 
Mazzini on, xxxii, 402-3; Mill on, 
XXV, 163-4, 212-17, 261-301; Schil- 
ler on need of, xxxii, 236 (see 
also Self-reliance) 

Induction, Bacon on, xxxix, 139, 
140, 143; Mill on, XXV, T04 _ 

Indulgence, Locke on, xxxvii, 28- 
30. 33-4 

Indulgences, sale of. xxxvi, 295 
note, 301 note 16, 314 note; 
Dante on sale of, xx, 411 note 
7; Luther on, xxxvi, 261-2, 265- 

, 73f 331-2 

Industrial Problems, Smith on solu- 
tion of, X, 4 

Industrial Schools, proposed by 
Ticknor, xxviii, 380 



Industries, domestic, capital natu- 
rally seeks, x, 349-51; infant, pro- 
tection of, 353-4 

Industry, climate and, xxxiv, 181; 
food-supply in relation to, x, 86- 
9; Franklin on, i, 61, 79, 89, 95- 
6; Franklin's rule of, 83, 85; 
Huxley^ on, xxviii, 230; paper 
money in relation to, x, 245, 258- 
9, 262-3; Penn on, i, 344-5» 360; 
quantity of, on what dependent, 
X, 244, 275-7» 349; wages in re- 
lation to, 86 

Inequality, On the. Among Man- 
kind, xxxiv, 167-234 

Inequality, Emerson on, v, 106; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 425; immortal- 
ity and, xxxii, 201; More on, 
xxxvi, 177-8, 250-1; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 127 (380); Penn on, i, 
412 (255-8); Pope on, xl, 442-3 

Inertia, of matter, Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 325; Hume on, xxxvii, 365 
note; Kelvin on, xxx, 315, 316 

Ines, Fair, xli, 930-1 

Inexperience, Hippocrates on, 
xxxviii, 5 

Infallibility, Pascal on, xlviii, 310 
(876), 311 (880) 

Infancy, Augustine, St., on, vii, 9- 
11; Locke on impressions of, 
xxxvii, 9, 28-9, 34-5; noncon- 
formity of, V, 65; Pope on, xl, 
436; Wordsworth on, xli, 611 

Infant, On an. Dying as Soon as 
Born, xli, 754-5 

Infatuation, Buddha on, xlv, 685; 
freedom from, 686-7 

Inferno, Dante's, xx, 5-146 

Infinite^ Divisibility, Hume on, 
xxxvii, 437-8 note 

Infinities, in geometry, xxxiv, 127- 
8; Hume on, xxxvii, 437-8 note 

Infinity, artificial, xxiv, 65; Burke 
on, 55, 67-8; Burke on sublimity 
of, 64-5, 117-20; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 334; Kelvin on, xxx, 270; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 26-8, 49 (121), 
78 (206), 83 (231-3), 436-44 

Infusoria, in air of St. Jago, xxix, 
15; on surface of ocean, 24-8 

Inga, emperor of Guiana, xxxiii, 
331-2 

Ing?evones, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

95 
Ingcel, the One-eyed, xlix, 217, 

222-6t 228-9, 230-62 
Ingeld, and Freawaru, xlix, 62 

note, 62 note 
Tngenhoiisz, Dr., xxxviii, 181 
Ingenuity, Penn on, i, 360 (229) _ 
Ingenuousness, Locke on, xxxvii, 

I 22 
Ingolf, the Norseman, xliii, 5 
Ingratitude, Cervantes on, xiv. 195; 

Hobbes on, xxxiv, 423; Shake* 



276 



GENERAL INDEX 



speare on, xl, 273-4; Shakespeare 
on, of children, xlvi, 225, 226, 
254; Sheridan on, xviii, 166 

Inheritance, Bacon on riches by, 
"i>. 93» 94; Burke on principle of, 
xxiv, 181; Emerson on, v, 51-2, 
251; freedom of, in Body of 
Liberties, xliii, jz (10); in Mas- 
sachusetts, ^2 (81, 82); Mill on, 
XXV, 149; Mohammedan laws of, 
xlv, 981-2, 984, 998; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 383 (see also Heredity) 

Inheritance Taxes, Smith on, x, 

, 5-29, 532 

Injuries, Browne on, iii, 334; Epic- 
tetus on repaying, ii, 153; Frank- 
lin on resenting, i, 83; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 386, 409; Machiavelli 
on, xxxvi, 11; Marcus Aurelius 
on, ii, 231 (25), 238 (20), 293 
(18); Penn's maxim on, i, 364 
(298) ; Socrates on, ii, 38 

Injustice, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 409, 
417-22, ^26; Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii, 2(ij (i); Pascal on, xlviii, 79 
(214), 154 (454); Socrates on, 
ii, 38 

Innate Ideas, Hume on, xxxvii 320 
note; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 106 

Inner Life, admonitions concerning 
the, vii, 248-67 

Inner Light, Kempis on the, vii, 
269-70; Woolman on, i, 182, 184, 

203, 222y 233, 258-9 

Inner Vision, The, xli, 688 
Innis, anecdote of, i, 159-60 
Innkeeper, Nicknamed "The Mar- 
quis," vi, 534 
Innocence, Goethe on, xix, 129; 
Marvell on, xl, 386; Sheridan on 
consciousness of, xviii, 163; virtue 
and, i, 375 (443-4) 
Innocence, Auguries of, xli, 601-4 
Innocent VI, and King John, xxxv, 

34 

Innocent, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 203-4 

Innocent, Mount, xv, 295 

Innovation, Bacon on, iii, 65-6; 
Berkeley on, xxxvii, 281; Burke 
on spirit of, xxiv, 181; Gallus on, 
XXXV, 332 note; Machiavelli on, 
xxxvi, 8, 21-2; Penn on, i, 360 
(230-1); reform contrasted with, ' 
xxiv, 41 t; Smith on, xxvii, 251; 
Washington on, xliii, 257-8 

Inns of the Court, xxxv, 400 

Ino, in the Bacch^, viii, 379, 400; 
in the Odyssey, xxii, 80 

Inoculation, Franklin on, i, 100; 
extended by Pasteur, xxxviii, 284; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 95-9; Wool- 
man on, i, 247 (see also Vaccina- 
tion) 

Inquiry, Bacon on, xi, i : Bacon's 
method of, xxxix, 13S-47, 150-3; 



Browne on, iii, 2^7*^ Burke on, 
xxiv, 7-8, 9, 48, 49; Buddha on 
useless subjects of, xlv, 662-7; 
Carlyle on, xxv, 334, 362; Chan- 
ning on, xxviii, 336; Emerson on, 
V, 21; Hobbes on ends of, xxxiv, 
359-62, 389-90; judgment and 
fancy in, 364-5; Hume on limits 
of, xxxvii, 442-5; Kempis on, vii, 
272 (4), 378 (i, 2); 379 (5); 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 210 (11), 
234 (3)» 246 (4), 250 (30), 258 
(11), 288 (37), 304 (29); Penn 
on, i, 354, 404 (164); Plutarch 
on improper love of, xii, 36 

Inquisition, censorship of press by 
the, iii, 203, 206, 208; Galileo 
and, xxxiv, 113; in the Nether- 
lands, xix, 251-2; Pascal on the, 
xlviii. 320 

Inquisitiveness, of children, xxxvii, 
111-14; Horace on, xxvii, 35 note 

Insects, color of, xi, 146; flowers 
and, 106-7, 108-9, iio-ii; Harri- 
son on, xxxv, 365; hearts in, 
xxxviii, 89-90, 137; imitation 
among, xi, 235-6, 467; luminous, 
199-200; neuter and sterile, 290-5; 
phosphorescent, xxix, 40-1 ; respi- 
ration in, xxxviii, 142; at sea, 
xxix, 173; win^s of, developed 
from tracheae, xi, 196 

Insensibility, Pascal on, xlviii, 77 
(197-8) 

Insensibility, Happy, xli, 898-9 

Insight, Confucius on, xliv, 39 (6) 

Insincerity, Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 
205 (16) 

Inspiration, Emerson on, v, 28, 29, 
45» 63, 74; Epictetus on, ii, 134 
(53); Hobbes on, xxxiv, 368; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 91 (245); 
Plutarch on, xii, 183-4; Quaker 
doctrine of, xxxiv, 70-1 

Instsevones, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 96 

Instauratio Magna, Prefaces to, 
xxxix, 122-49; editorial remarks 
on, 3 

Instigation, Mill on liberty of, xxv, 
260, 307-9 

Instinct, Burke on, xxiv, 428; Dar- 
win on, xi, 262-97; Emerson 
on, v, 74-5 ; of giant crab, xxix, 
488; Hume on, xxxvii, 395; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 119 (344), 131 
(396), 448-9; Pope on, xl, 423-4, 
435-6; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 2'j(i 
note 

Institutes, Dedication of Calvin's, 
xxxix, 29-54 

Institutions, Burke on sudden 
changes in, xxiv; 304-5; Emerson 
on, v, 10, 72, 198 

Institutions, Public, expense of, x, 
473-88 



GENERAL INDEX 



277 



Instruction, Emerson on, v, 248; 
Epictetus on need of, ii, 156 
(105); expense of public, x, 485- 
486 

Instructions, in Slough of Dispond, 
XV, 20 

Instrument of Government, The, 
xliii, 113-25 

Instruments, Berkeley on, xxxvii.- 
253-4; Smith on, x, 227-8, 424- 
442 

Insurance, Smith on, x, 11 4- 15 

Insurance Corporations, x, 483, 484 

Insurrections, congressional control 
of, xliii, 197 (15) 

Integer Vit^, xl, 293-4 . 

Integrity, Franklin on, i, 91 

Intellect, Archytas on, ix, 60; beauty 
and, xxxii, 282, 288; Carlyle on 
unconsciousness of high, xxv, 336; 
Channing on the, xxviii, 334, 337; 
Emerson on the, v, 139, 140, 
198, 292-3; good, marred, and evil, 
xlv, 879; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 362- 
73; love and, xlviii,^ 421, 422; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 215 (4); 
as measure of organization, xi, 
135; Pascal on, xlviii, 9, 10 (7), 
127 (378), 280; Rousseau on, 
xxxiv, 251-3 

Intellectual Growth, Emerson on, v, 
142 

Intelligence, ihrec scales of, xxxvi, 

79 

Intemperance, taught to children, 
xxxvii, 31-2; fruits of, iv, 334; 
Luther on, xxxvi, 349-50; a tyr- 
anny, xlvi, 357; VVoolman on, i, 
204-5 (see also Drunkenness) 

intention (s), Kant on, xxxii, 323-31 ; 
Kempis on purity of, vii, 310 (2); 
Locke on, xxxvii, iio; James 
Mill on, xxv, 37 

interbreeding, Darwin on close, xi, 
no, 140, 318 

Intercourse, Truth of, by Stev- 
enson, xxviii, 287-94 

Intercrossing, compared with change 
of conditions, xi, 317-18; impor- 
tance of, 57; necessity of, 109-14; 
reciprocal, 308; between species, 
298-318; species kept true by, 115- 
16; varieties, how affected by, 
105, 114-15 

Interdicts, Luther on, xxxvi, 282 
note 323 

Interest (ethical), as source of er- 
rors, xlviii, 38; as basis of friend- 
ship, ix, 26-7; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
277* 389; Kant on, xxxii, 344 
note, 380 note, 391 note. 

Interest (monetary), defined, x, 55; 
in Elizabethan England, xxxv, 315- 
16; unknown among ancient Ger- 
mans, xxxiii, no; legal regula- 



tion of, x, 298-9; Luther on, 
xxxvi, 348-9; in early Massachu- 
setts, xliii, 74 (23) ; Penn on, 1, 
354; price of land dependent on 
rate of, x, 299; rates of, historic- 
ally considered, x, 94-7> 99-ioo; 
rate of, on what dependent, 294-7; 
rate of, affected by taxes on 
profits, 527-8; rate of, due to in- 
security, loi; rate of, determines 
building rent, 510-11; rates of, 
as index of profits, 102-3; taxes 
on, 519-22 (see also Usury) 

Intermediate Varieties, absence of, 
xi, 179-84; in geological forma- 
tions, 346-54 

Intermitting, Burke on, xxiv, 73-4, 
117-18 

International Law, offences against, 
xliii, 197 (10) 

International Relations, Washington 
on, xliii, 261-2 

Interpreter, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 33-41, 204-14 ... ^^ 

Interruptions, Bacon on, in, 66-7; 

Locke on, xxxvii, I33-.4; ^35 
Interstate Commerce, xliii, 196 (3), 

198 (6) 
Intimations of Immortality, xh, 

609-15; Mill on, xxv, 98 
Intolerance, Mill on, xxv, 38, 234-7; 

in politics, xliii, 214 
Introspection, Burke on value of, 

xxiv, 9 
IntroversioHj Emerson on, v, 20-1 
Intuition, Emerson on, v, 63, 66, 

74; Mill on doctrine of, xxv, 174- 

5; Mill on knowledge by, 146; 

Pascal on, xlviii, 41 (95)* OOioo, 

145 (434) , ^ , , , ... 

Intuitive Mind, Pascal on the, xlvni, 

7-10 
Invective (s), Browne on religious, 
iii, j68; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 364; 
Luther on, xxxvi, 354; Swift on, 
xxvii, 124 
Inventions, monopolies of, in Body 
OF Liberties, xliii, 72 (9); Emer- 
son on, V, 86; Franklin on patent- 
ing, i, 116-17; Penn on, 360 (230- 
2); profits of, X, 64; Voltaire on, 
xxxiv, 101-2; Woolman on, i, 223 
Inventors, honors for, Channing on, 
xxviii, 370; in New Atlantis, 
iii, 190 
Inventory, The, vi, 194-6 
Inverary, The Bard at, vi, £86 
Inverey, in The Baron of BraCK- 

LEY, xl, 120-3 
Investigation (see Inquiry) 
Investitures, Luther on, xxxvi, 308- 

Investments, Smith on imprudent, 

x, 281 
Invitation, The, by Shelley, xlif 

866-7 



278 



GENERAL INDEX 



Invitation, Apology for Declin- 
ing AN, vi, 549 

Invitation, Extempore Reply to 
AN, vi, 490 

Invitation, Versified Reply to an, 
vi, 210 

Invocation, by Shelley, xli, 847-8 

Inward Consolation, Kempis on, 
vii, 268-348 

lo, in Prometheus Bound, viii, 
175-86 

Iodine, vapor of, xxx, 4^2-;^ 

lolas, in the JEi^EiD, xiii, 384, 414 

lole, Dante on, xx, 324; on Hercu- 
les, v, 192 

Ion, on Pericles, xii, 41 

Ionian Sea, named from lo, viii, 

lonians, in Egypt, xxxiii, 79-80, 84 
lopas, in the ^neid, xiii, loi 
lophon, son of Sophocles, viii, 196, 

287, 421 
Iphicles, the kine of, xxii, 159 
Iphigeneia, by Landor, xli, 927-8 
Iphigenia, ^schylus on sacrifice of, 
viii, 12-14; Dante on, xx, 305; 
Landor on, xli, 927-8; Lucretius 
on, iii, 14; Ruskin on, xxviii, 146 
Iphimedeia, in Hades, xxii, 160 
Iphitus, son of Eurytus, xxii, 295- 
6' in sack of Troy, xiii, 114, 118 
Iquique, town of, xxix, 383-4 
Iras, Cleopatra and, xii, 382, 402; 
in All for Love, xviii, 36-7, 68, 
70, 84, 86, 96-99 
Ireland, candle-eating in, xxxv, 374; 
Christianity in. xxxii, 178, 179, 
180-1, 182-90; Emerson on, v, 
354; epic literature of, xHx, 210; 
Freeman on, xxviii, 267, 276; 
Mill on, XXV, 151-2, 187-8; New- 
man on, xxviii, 50-1; poetry in, 
xxvii, 125-30; Renan on, xxxii, 
143, 146; woolen manufactures of, 
X, 204 
Ireland, The Fair Hills of, xli, 

947-8 
Irenaeus, St., on early ^ converts, 

xxviii, 38; Milton on, iii, 213 
Ireson's Ride, xiii, 1434-7 
Iris, Juno and, xiii, 48, 181; Milton 
on, iv, 48, 7s, 328; in The Tem- 
pest, xlvi, 425-6, 427-8 
Irish, cold baths among the, xxxvii, 
13-14; Thackeray on the, xxviii, 
15 (see also Celtic Races) 
Irish Channel, tides in, xxx, 302 
Irish Emigrant, Lament of the, 

xli, 945-7 

Irish Rebel, story of the, iii, 103-4 

Iron, beginnings of use of, xxxiv, 

210-11; More on, xxxvi, 202; 

combustion of, in oxygen, xxx, 

144; action of, on water, 124-7 

Iron Brigade, at Gettysburg, xliii, 

347 note, 352 
Iron Henry, tale of, xvii, 51-4 



Iroquois Indians, Treaty with, 

xliii, 246-9 
Irresolution, Ilobbes on, xxxiv, 380, 

387 
Irrevocable Laws, fallacy of, xxvii, 

241-7 
Irus, the beggar, Ulysses and, xxii, 

255-8 
Irving, Edward, Carlyle and, xxv, 

329 

Isaac, son of Abraham, xliv, 442 
(8); Augustine, St., on, vii, 196; 
Mohammed on, xlv, 922; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 205 
Isabella, Queen, of Castile, on 
forms, iii, 131; Raleigh on, xxxix, 
89, 90 
Isabella, Queen of Edward II, her 
griefs, xlvi, 12-13, 18-19; sues for 
Gaveston's recall, 19-22; recon- 
ciled to king, 23-4; at Gaveston's 
return, 28-30; accused by king, 
34; in Tynemouth, 37-9; sent to 
France, 45, 51, 52-5; return with 
Mortimer, 56-60; Edward on, 64, 
66, 67; her triumph with Morti- 
mer, 68-9; her part in kind's 
death, 69-70; with Prince Ed- 
ward, 71, 76; at death of Kent, 
77; accused of king's murder, 8i« 
3; committed to Tower, 83-4 
IscTus, Demosthenes and, xii, 200; 

Pliny on, ix, 223-5 
Isaiah, Augustine, St., on, vii, 152; 
Burns on, vi, 145; prophecy of 
Eucharist, xlviii, 355; murder of, 
xlv, 925 note 
Isauricus, Servilius, xii, 306 
Iscantinaro, Cesare, xxxi, 215, 216 
Iselastic Games, ix, 436 note 
Iseult, Renan on, xxxii, 149 
Ishmael, xiii, 1370; Mohammed on, 

xlv, 922 
Isidore, Archbishop of Seville, xx, 

330 note 26 
Isis, the Egyptian Demeter, xxxiii, 
81; Herodotus on, 25, 33, 34; 
temple of, at Memphis, 89; Mil- 



as 



juevian 



ton on, IV, 14, 102; 
goddess, xxxiii, 100 

Islam, xlv, 963, 969 (see also Mo- 
hammedanism) 

Islands, species of oceanic, xi, 431- 

44 
Isle of France, Darwin on, xxlx, 

509-12 
Isles of Greece, xli, 833-5 
Ismael the Sophy, beauty of, iii, 112 
Ismarus, in the ^neid, xiii, 331 
Ismene, in^ Antigone, viii, 244-6, 
257-60; in Dante's Limbo, xx, 
239; in (Edipus the King, viii, 
240-1; in Ph^dra, xxvi, 139-42 
Ismenias, Plutarch on, xii, 37 
Isocrates, Demosthenes^ and, xii, 
200; Logos Arepagiticos of, iii, 
194, 201 ; old age of, ix, 50; oration 



GENERAL INDEX 



279 



for son of Alcibiades, xii, 119; 
on oratory at feasts, xxxii, 56; 
school of, iii, 256-7; on teachers, 
X, 142 
Isodorus, C. slaves of, ix, 393 note 2 
Isolation, Cicero on, ix, 38; Emer- 
son on, V, 78, 217; Kempis on 
need of, vii, 335-6; qualities of 
mind due to, xxviii, 177-9, i93» 
197; species in regard to, xi, 116- 

^7 

Israelites (see Jews) 

Ister, Herodotus on the, xxxiii, 21 

It was A' FOR Our Rightfu* King, 
vi, 525 

Italian Classics, xxxii, 127 

Italian Essays, xxxii, 399-419 

Italian Language, change in, xxxix, 
212; Milton on study of, iii, 254; 
Sidney on, xxvii, 53 

Italian Literature, Arnold on, xxviii, 
76; Taine on, xxxix, 461 

Italicus, Silius, Pliny on, ix, 246- 
248 

Italy, Alfieri on, v, 343, 359; two 
civilizations of, xxxix, 448; Dante 
on distractions of, xx, 170-1; 
Goethe on art of, xxxix, 272, 
279; Goldsmith on, xli, 535-7; 
Harrison on, xxxv, 235-6, 327; 
named Hesperia of old, xiii, 94, 
137; language as factor in re- 
uniting, xxviii, 265-6; Louis XII 
in, xxxvi, 13-15, _^ 25; Macaulay 
on mediaeval, xxvii, 384-95, 401; 
Machiavelli on princes of, xxxvi, 
82-3; Machiavelli's plea for free- 
dom of, 86-90; mercenaries in, 
45-6; papal power in, 290; poli- 
tics of, after Charles VIII, xxvii, 
406-7, 409-10; Renaissance in, 1, 
23; Taine on mediaeval, xxxix, 
448; Turner on travels in, xxxv, 
399; Virgil on ancient, iii, 79 

Ithaca, Homer on, xxii, 64, 120 

Ithacus (see Ulysses) 

Ithuriel, in Paradise Lost, iv, 177-8 

Itinerant Preachers, Franklin on, i, 
108; Penn on, 377 (461) 

Itylus, and Philomela, xx, 215 note; 
Homer on, xxii, 281 

Itylus, by Swinburne, xlii, 1249 

Iiilus (see Ascanius) 

Ivon, and Ivor, xlix, 167, 178, 185 

Ivy Green, The, xlii, 1194-5 

Ixion, ^schylus on, viii, 132, 143; 
Virgil on, xiii, 231-2 

Iwarawaqueri, the, xxxiii, 367, 369, 

Jackson, Lidian, second wife of 

Emerson, v, 3 
Jackson, Stonewall, and Barbara 

Frietchie, xlii, 1440-1 
Jacob, and the angel, xlii, 1360; 

Augustine, St., on, vii, 196; Bun- 

yan on dissimulation of, xv, 264; 



Milton on, iv, 151, 328, 349; 
Mohammed on, xlv, 922, 934, 938- 
41; Pascal on, xlviii, 205, 207, 
241; the Psalmist on, xliv, 280 
(10), 281 (23); Stephen on, 442 
(8), 443 (12, 14-16) 

Jacob's Ladder, Bunyan on, xv, 240 

Jacobite^s Epitaph, A, xli, 943 

Jacobites, Ye, by Name, vi, 446-7 

Jacobs, Joseph, compiler of -^sop's 
Fables, xvii, 3 

Jacobus de Benedictis, hymn by, xlv, 
565 

Jael, Sisira and, iv, 443; xv, 58 

Ja'far, vizier of Harun Er-Rashid, 
xvi, 66, 107, 226-31, 239-41 

Jaguar, flesh of the, xxix, 129; 
habits of, 147-9 

Jairus, the daughter of, xliv, 381 
(41-2), 382 (49-56) 

Jamaica, disturbance in, xxv, 188- 
90 

Jamblichus, xxxiii, 412-13 

James, St., the Great, xliv, 370 
(lo-ii), 373 (14), 382 (51), 384 
(28), 386 (54). 430 (13), 456 
(2); in Dante's Paradise, xx, 
392-4 

James, St., son of Alphaeus, xliv, 
373 (15), 430 (13), 463 (13-21) 

James II, of Aragon, xx, 370 note 
14 

James I, King of England, Bacon 
to, xxxix, 125-6; Bentham on, 
xxvii, 241; Bohemia and, xv, 350- 
I ; Dr. Donne and, 343-45. 347» 
348, ..351-2, 353; Harvey and, 
xxxviii, 64; George Herbert and, 
XV, 385, 387, 388, 390; marriage 
bed of, X, 288; Andrew Melvin 
and, XV, 386; Puritans and, xxvii, 
145-6; Raleigh on, xxxix, 82-4; 
charter to Virginia, xliii, 51-61 

James II, Bentham on abdication 
of, xxvii, 247; Burke on, xxiv, 171, 
175-6; Dissenters and, xxvii, 147; 
William Penn and, xxxiv, 78 

James I, of Scotland, xlii, 1200-25; 
his imprisonment in England, 
xxxv, 286 

James, king of Majorca, xx, 370 
note 13 

James, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 
222, 226-7f 230-1, 248, 256, 262, 
277-8, 290 

James, Abel, letter of, to Franklin, 
i, 71-72 

James Island, Darwin on, xxix, 
398-9 

Jamie, Come Try Me, vi, 363 

Jan Yu, xliv, 10 note 4, 15 note 5, 
19 (6) note 10, 20 (10), 23 (i4)» 
34 (2), 35 (12), 36 (16, 21, 23), 
37 (25), 44 (9, 14), 56 (i) 

Jane, in Shoemaker's Holiday, 



280 



GENERAL INDEX 



xlvii, 451, 453-4, 477, 483-6, 490, 

500-3 
Janizaries, Bacon on, iii, 54 and note 
Tann, species of genii, xvi, 9 note 
Jansenists, xlviii, 5; Pascal on the, 

307 (865), 312 (887) 
Jansenius, Cornelius, xlviii, s, 293 

, (834) 

Janus, Milton on, iv, 326; Virgil 
on, xiii, 85, 249, 264 

Jarjaris, the Efrit, xvi, 80 

Jason, son of .^son, in Dante's 
Hell, xx, tj 

Jason, brother of Onias, xx, 81 

note 5 
fason, the Christian, xliv, 468 (5-9) 
Tava, Drake at, xxxiii, 232-3 
[aws, and limbs, related, xi, 155 
Tay and Peacock, fable of, xvii, 18 
fay, John, article in the Federalist, 
xliii, 216-21 

Jealousy, ^schylus on, viii, 34; 
Bacon on, of husbands, iii, 22,\ 
Campion on, xl, 293; defined by 
Hqbbes, xxxiv, 354; Dryden on, 
xviii, ^Ty Eliphaz on, xliv, 79 
(2); music and, xli, 490; Pascal 
on, xlriii, 167 (502); Penn on, 
i, 358, 407; rage and, xxxiv, 367 

Jean, Thy Bonie Face, It is na, 
vi, 334 

Jefferson, Thomas, author of Dec- 
laration OF Independence, xliii, 
160 note; the Mecklenburg Dec- 
laration and, 166 note 

Jeffrey, Francis, Carlyle and, xxv, 
330; Edinburgh Review and, xxvii, 
236 

Jehoshaphat, Last Judgment in, xx, 
41 note I 

Jehovah, name of God (see Job, 
Book of, and Psalms) 

Jellaladeen, parable of, xxviii, 473-4 

temimah, daughter of Job, xliv, 143 

Jenner, Edward, life and works, 
xxxviii, 150; On Vaccination, 

,. 151-231 

Jenner, Henry, xxxvni, 162, 169, 
213, 222, 22S 

Tenner, Rev. G. C, xxxviii, 225-6 

Jenny Kiss'd Me, xli, 893 

Jephthah, Dante on, xx, 305; daugh- 
ter of, xlvi, 127; Milton on, iv, 
387, 426 

Jeremiah, Burns*s paraphrase of, vi, 
25; Calvin on, xxxix, 45; wor- 
shipped in Egypt, 37; imprison- 
ment of, xlv, 925 note; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 214; Woolman on, i, 
203 

Jeremy, in She Stoops to Con-quer, 
xviii, 246-7 

Jeroboam, Bunyan on, xv, 313 
erome, St., apparition of, iii, 210; 
on angels, xx, 409 note i ; on 
idleness, xxxix, 14 
Jerome of Prague, xxxvi, 333, 334 



Jerusalem, Dante on destruction of, 
XX, 234 note 5, 313 note 6; Jesus 
on, xliv, 398 (34-5) » 411 (41-4); 
Jews on situation of, v, 347; la- 
ment over destruction of, xliv, 
248; Pare on destruction of, 
xxxviii, 32; Pascal on ruin of, 
xlviii, 222 (654) ; prayer for peace 
of, 312; prophecy of destruction 
of, xliv, 415 (20-4); temple of, 
washed with alum, xxxv, 336; 
Woolman on wickedness of, i, 215 
Jerusalem, the Golden, xlv, 561 
JESSIE, THE Flower o' Dunblane, 

xli, 608 
Jester's Song, from Jolly Beggars, 

vi, 132 
Jesting, Bacon on limits of, iii, 88; 
clumsy, no joke, xvii, 14; with 
malice, Sheridan on, xviii, 116 
Jesu, Dulcedo Cordium, xlv, 563 
Jesu, Dulcis Memoria, xlv, 562 
Jesuits, Bacon on cunning of, iii, 
60; miracles performed by, 292 
(27); Pascal on, xlviii, 5, 303, 
304 (854), 307 (865), 311 (882), 
314 (891), 315 (902), 319 (919), 
320 
Jesus, apostles of, xliv, 37s (13- 
16); baptism of, 366 (21-2); birth 
of, 362 (7); birth of, hymns on, 
xlv, 567-8, 578-9; birth of, Milton 
on, iv, 354-5» 369; blind man 
restored by, xliv, 409 (35-43); 
Burns on, vi, 145; Browne on 
eclipse at death of, iii, 294 (29) ; 
Bunyan on, xv, 145; (Talderon on 
death of, xxvi, 22; centurion and, 
xliv, 376 (2-10); Chaucer on lan- 
guage of, xl, 31; circumcision of, 
xliv, 363 (21); circumcision of, 
Milton on, iv, 42; coming of the 
Lord, 394 (35-59). 406 (22-37), 
407 (8), 415 (8-11), 416 (25-36); 
Dante on darkness at death of, 
XX, 410-11; cures demoniacs, xliv, 
385 (38-43)1 390 (14-26); heals 
dropsy, 398 (1-6); Emerson on, v, 
29, 30, 70, 72y 146, 148, 153, 160, 
205; feasts in commemoration of, 
XV, 408-9; feeds five thousand, 
xliv, 383 (11-17); the fig-tree and, 
XXXV, 140; Francis, St., on love 
of, xlv, 568-9; Franklin on, i, 84; 
Gadarene miracle, xliv, 380 (27- 
39); genealogy of, 366 (23-38); 
Herod and, 383 (7-9); Hume on 
miracles of, xxxvii, 396; infirm 
woman cured by, xliv, 396 (11- 
17); Jairus's daughter raised by, 
381 (41-2); Jerusalem, entry into, 
411 (28-44); Jerusalem, foretells 
destruction of, 415 (20-4); John 
the Baptist and, 377; Kempis on 
cross of, vli, 262-3; Kempis on 
loving, 255-7; Lamb on, xxvii, 
295; last supper, xliv, 417 (14- 



GENERAL INDEX 



281 



37); lepers healed by, 405 (11- 
19). 37^ (12-15); lullaby for in- 
fant, xl, 261-5; MacDonald on, 
xlii, 1 1 63-4; Martha and Mary 
with, xliv, 388 (38-42) ; Mary 
Magdalene and, 378 (37-50) ; Mill 
on persecution of, xxv, 227-8; 
Mill on teachings of, 254; miracu- 
lous draught of fishes, xliv, 370 
(4-1 1); Mohammed on, xlv, 921, 
9^5'7» 979» 996-8, 1013, 1016, 1020- 
I ; More on teachings of, xxxvi, 
175; palsied man healed by, xliv, 
371 (18-26); parable of fig-tree, 
396 (6-9) ; parable of Good Sa- 
maritan, 388 (25-37) ; parable of 
great supper, 399 (15-24); parable 
of the importunate widow, 407 
(1-5); parable of Lazarus, 404 
(19-31); parable of lost sheep, 
401 (3-7); parable of marriage 
feast, 399 (8-1 1); parable of old 
and new garments and wines, 372 
(36-9); parable of the Pharisee 
and publican, 407 (9-14); parable 
of piece of silver, 401 (8-10); 
parable of prodigal son, 401 (11- 
32) ; parable of rich man, 393 
(16-21); parable of sower, 379 (4- 
15); parable of ten servants, 410 
(11-26); parable of unjust stew- 
ard, 402 (1-13); parable of vine- 
yard, 412 (9-18); in Paradise 
Regained, iv, 363 et seq. ; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 81 (222-3), 178- 
80, 182 (554). 267 (744). 278 
(786-92), 280; Pascal on miracles 
or, 285 (808-13), 290 (826), 291 
(829), 293 (834), 294 (838, 839), 
298, 299; passion and death, xliv, 
419-23; passion of, Milton on, iv, 
24-5; Paul, St., on resurrection 
01, xlv, 522 (3-11); Peter and, 
xliv, 419 (55-62); Peter on, 432 
(22-36), 435, 436 (10-12); Phari- 
sees and, 391 (37-44), 403 (14- 
17); Plato and, xxvii, 363; teaches 
prayer, xliv, 389 (1-13); public 
ministry, 368-416; resurrection of, 
423-4; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 310- 
11; on the Sabbath, xliv, 372 (i- 
11), 397 (14-16), 398 (1-6); Sad- 
ducees and, 413 (27-40); casts 
sellers out of temple, 411 (45-6); 
sermon on the mount, 374 (20- 
49) ; sends out seventy disciples, 
386 (1-24); Shelley on, xxvii, 
362; Sidney on parables of, 21; 
storm stilled by, xliv, 380 (22-5) ; 
temptation of, 367 (1-13); trans- 
figuration of, 384 (29-36) ; on 
tribute money, 413 (22-6); xxxvi, 
^89; Watts on, xlv, 549-50; Wes- 
ley on, 572-3; widow 01 Nain and, 
xliv, 376 (11-17); on the widow's 
mitet 414 (1-4); women and, 379 



(2-s); XV, 269); Woolman on, i, 
291; Zacchaeus and, xliv, 409 (i- 
10) (see also Christ) 
Jethro, daughter of, xlii, 11 40 
Jetter, in Egmont, xix, 247-53, 266- 

72, 292-7, 312-13 
Jevons, on Herodotus, xxxiii, 4 
Jewish Physician, story of the, 

xvi, 150-8 
Jews, Browne on the, iii, 290 (25); 
in England, v, 360; German, cold 
baths ^ of, xxxvii, 13; Justine on 
the, in Egypt, iii, 294* Lessing 
on the, xxxii, 196-207; Lowell on 
the, xxviii, 472; Luther on the, 
xxxvi, 316, 327, 333, 348, 350; 
Milton on history of the, iv, 349- 
54; Mohammed on the, xlv, 913- 
i5» 924-5, 932, 954, 966, 970, 996- 
7, loio, 1013, 1014, 1015, 1016- 
17; in New Atlantis, iii, 176; 
orange-tawny worn by, 106 note; 
permanence of the, v, 351; Pascal 
on the, xlviii, 190, 197 (592), 207 
(618), 208-13, 215 (633), 216-17, 
220 (645-6), 224 (662-4), 226 
(670-1), 229, 238 (701), 239 (702- 
4), 240-1, 242 (713), 248 (714), 
261-2, 263 (735), 265, 267 (745- 
50), 271 (759-63), 274 (774), 285 
(808), 289 (822), 292 (829), 355; 
Winthrop on commonwealth of 
the, xliii, 96 

Jezebel, Raleigh on, xxxix, 74 
HANsi, In the Round Tower of, 
xlii, 1229-30 

Tinni, defined, xvi, 9 note 

Joab, Edomites and, xliv, 219; Win- 
throp on, xliii, 100 

Joabin, merchant of New Atlantis, 
iii, 176 

Joachim, Abbot of Flora, xx, 340 
note 38 

Joan of Arc, burning of, xxxix, 
377; education of, xxviii, 158-9; 
Renan on, xxxii, 161-2 

Joanna, wife of Chuzas, xliv, 379 
(3), 424 (10) 

Job, Browne on, iii, 308 (44), 332; 
Burke on, xxiv, 427; Milton on, 
iv, 367, 372, 390; Pascal on, xlviii, 
65 (174) 

Job, The Book of, xliv, 73-'^43f 
compared with ^schylus, viii, 3; 
Burke on passages from, xxiv, 56, 
58-9, 60; editorial remarks on, 
xlivj 72; 1, 18-19, 31; Hugo on, 
XXXIX, 371; Lessing on, xxxii, 
202; Pascal on, xlviii, 266 (741); 
Shelley on, xxvii, 348 

Jocasta, in OEdipus the King, viii, 
218-19, 223-4, 228, 234-5; called 
Epicaste, xxii, 159 

JOCK OF Hazeldean, xH, 758-9 
ockey's Taen the Parting KisSf 
vi, 582 



282 



GENERAL INDEX 



Joel, prophecy of, xliv, 432 
ohannes Parricida (see John of 
Suabia) 

John, St., disciple of Jesus, xliv, 371 
(lo-ii), 373 (14), 382 (51), 384 
(28), 385 (49), 386 (54), 417 (8- 
13). 430 (i3)» 434 (O. 436-7; 
apocalypse of, iv, 157; v, 183; vi, 
146; on the Eucharist, xlviii, 354- 
5; Gospel of, translated by Faust, 
xix, 50; Milton on, iii, 243; in 
Paradise, xx, 395-7* 423; in Sa- 
maria, xliv, 446 (14-25) 

John, St., of Damascus, hymn by, 
xlv, 555 

John, called Mark, xliv, 456 (12), 

457 (25), 458 (5, i3)» 465 (37-9) 
John Baptist, Saint, by Drum- 

mond, xl, 335 
John the Baptist, birth prophesied, 
xliv, 358 (13-17); birth of, 360 
(57-63); childhood in desert, 361 
<8o) ; Dante on, xx, 240, 366 note 
12, 421; Herod and, xliv, 366 (19- 
20), 38^ (9); Jesus and, 377 (18- 
28); Kempis on, vii, Z'7^ (3); 
Milton on, iv, 363-4» 37o; Mo- 
hammed on, xlv, 919, 920, 925 
note; Pascal on, xlviii, 269 (752), 
271 (784); Paul, St., on, xliv, 
459 (24-5); preaching of, 365 (2- 
18) 

John XXI, Pope, xx, 340 note 34 
ohn XXII, Pope, xx, 401 note 8; 
annates established by, xxxvi, 292 
note 

John of Austria, xxxix, 92 

John, King of Bohemia, in Crecy 
campaign, xxxv, 10, 15, 21, 27-8 

John of Burgogne, xxxix, 89 

John, King Of England, Bertrand 
and, XX, 120 note; Cistertians 
and, xxxv, 267-8; fowling laws 
of, 352; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 90 

John, King of France, Black Prince 
and, xxxv, 55, 57-8, 59; capture 
of, 52-4, 59-60; cardinal^ of Peri- 
gord and, 39-42; at Poitiers, 34-7, 
47-8, 49-51; prisoner in England, 

233 
3 ohn of Gaunt, and Chaucer, xxxix, 

171 
John of Hainault, in Edward II, 

xlvi, 53-5, 57 ^ 
John, King of Portugal, xxxix, 

90 
John, Duke of Suabia, xxvi, 412 

and note; murders Emperor, 464; 

as monk in Wilhelm Tell, 468- 

73 
John the Swede, in Two Years Be- 
FORE the Mast, xxiii, 34, 43, 105, 
106-9, 112, 132, 418 

JOHN Anderson, My Jo, vi, 365 
OHN Barleycorn: A Ballad, vi, 
41-3 



John Gilpin, The Diverting His- 
tory OF, xli, 559-67 

Johnie Armstrong, xl, 102-4 

Johnie Lad, Cock up Your Beaver, 
vi, 439 

Johnson, Andrew, Proclamation of 
1866, xliii, 453-8 

Johnson, Esther, On Death of, 
xxvii, 131-40 

Johnson, Esther, and Swift, xxviii, 
6, 13, 22-5, 26; xxvii, 96; Thack- 
eray on, xxviii, 2.2\ on Vanessa, 
26 

Johnson, Samuel, Life of Addison, 
xxvii, 1 65-2 11; Carlyle on, xxv, 
426; Letter to Chesterfield, 
xxxix, 216-17; Preface to Dic- 
tionary, 191-216; editorial re- 
marks on works of, 191 note; 
1, 55; Emerson on, v, 368, 456; 
Goldsmith to, xviii, 199; on Gower, 
xxviii, 78; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 283, 
287; On Robert Levet, xli, 515; 
life and works of, xxvii, 164; on 
Milton, xxviii, 213; xxxix, 336, 
337; on Paradise Lost, xxviii, 
210; parody by, xxxix, 303-4; on 
persecution, xxv, 230; on Percy's 
Reliques, xxxix, 342; on Pope, 
339; on primogeniture, v, 430; 
paraphrase of Proverbs, xxxix, 
309-10; A Satire, xli, 516; Pref- 
ace TO Shakespeare, xxxix, 218- 
63 ; style of, v, 22 ; as biographer 
of Swift, xxviii, 7; Thackeray on, 
7 ; Wordsworth on Prefatory Lives 
of, xxxix, 346-7 

Johnson, Sir William, treaty with 
Senecas, xliii, 247 

Joint-stock Companies, x, 482-5 

Jolly Beggars, The, vi, 129-40; 
Arnold on, xxviii, 89; editorial 
remarks on, vi, 17 

Tolly Good Ale and Old, xl, 192-4 

Tonadab, son of Rechab, xliii, loi 

Jonah, Ninevites and, xliv, 391 (30, 
32) 

Jonakr, King, xlix, 358, 376, 377* 
410, 444 

Jonas, ancestor of Launcelot, xxxv, 

159 
Jonathan, David and, xli, 498; Saul 

and, xliii, 1 10 
Jones, Owen, Renan on, xxxii, 

144 
Tones, Paul, and Franklin, i, 173 
Jones, Sir William, poems by, xli, 

592-3 
Jonson, Ben, The Alchemist, xlvii, 
519-635; On Bacon, xxvii, 60-1; 
Beaumont's Letter to, xl, 328- 
30; on beautv, xxviii,^ 423; Devil 
ts an Ass, Sy, xxvii, 406; Ex- 
plorata of, 58; Fielding on, xxxix, 
189; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 291; life 
and works, 58; xlvii, 518; poems 



GENERAL INDEX 



283 



by, xl, 397-310; On Shake- 
speare, xxvii, 59 
Jordan, Thomas, Let Us Drink, xl, 

Jorge, Alvaro, xxxiii, 325 note 

Jormunrek, King, xlix, 358-9, Z7^> 
377-8, 380, 410, 444» 454, 455 

Josaphat, Last Judgment in, xx, 41 
note 

Joseph of Arimathaea, xliv, 423 (50- 
3); in Holy Grail legend, xxxv, 
123-5, 144, 159, 217, 225 

Joseph, husband of Mary, xliv, 358 
{27), 362 (4), 366 (23); xl, 265 

Joseph, Kaiser, as Count Lorraine, 
XXV, 444 ^ , ^ 

Joseph, in Pilgrim s Progress, xv, 
231, 248, 250, 286, 290 

Joseph, son of Jacob, Chaucer on 
dreams of, xl, 43; the harlot and, 
V, 70; xv,^ 73, 86; Locke on story 
of, xxxvii, 142; Mohammed on, 
xlv, 933-42, 945; Pascal on, xlviii, 
211 (623), 238 (698), 241, 242, 
273 (768); the Psalmist on, xliv, 
280 (17-22); Stephen on, 442 (9- 

15) 

Joseph Andrews, Preface to, xxxix, 
184-90 

Josephus, silence of, on Christ, 
xlviii, 278 (787); on Jewish Law, 
209, 210, 214, 215; Pascal on, 213 
(629) ; on spirits, xli, 702 note 

Joshua, Gibeonites and, vii, 315 
(2); Milton on, iv, 352, 353; one 
of nine worthies, xxxix, 21; in 
Paradise, xx, 363; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 212 (627) 

Joule, James Prescott, law of con- 
servation and, XXX, 183-4; on me- 
chanical equivalent of heat, xxx, 
207-8; on expansion of gases, 
208-9 

Jourbert, The Germ Theory, xxxviii, 
283, 382-9 

Journal of John Woolman, i, 177- 
326 

Journalism, Franklin's ideas of, 1, 
96-7 

Journey Onwards, The, xli, 841-2 

Journeys in Diverse Places, 
xxxviii, 9-61; remarks on, 8 

Jousts, Bacon on, iii, loi 

Jove, in the .^neid, xiii, 84-5, 124, 
164-5, 205, 326, 330, 347, 423-4; 
Alcmena and, xl, 247; Amalthea 
and, iv, 164; Augustine, St., on, 
vii, 18; bird of, iv, 327; Danre 
and, xlvi, 51; Leda and, xl, 234; 
Maia and, 246; Milton on, iv, 
68, 276 (see also Jupiter) 

Jowett, Benjamin, translator of 
Plato, ii 

Joy, Augustine, St., on, vii, 128, 
185; Blake on, and grief, xli, 602; 
Chaucer on, xl, 45; of Christians, 



Pascal on, xlviii, 360-1 ; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 57 (5) ; contrasted 
with relief from pain, xxiv, 35; 
Joy, Goethe on, xix, 120; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 353; Jonson on un- 
shared, xl, 300; in music, xli, 490- 
i ; Shakespeare on, and grief, xlvi, 
144; son of Cupid and Psyche, iv, 

73 

Joyeuse, sword of Charlemagne, 
xlix, 188 

Joyous Friars, the, xx, 98 note 4 

Ju Pei, Confucius and, xliv, 61 
(20) 

Juan Fernandez, Dana on, xxiii, 45- 
52; earthquake at, xxix, 329 

Juba, Plutarch on, xii, 317-19; 403 

Juba, in Cato, xxvii, 198, 200-1, 
205, 206-7; son of, xii, 320 

Jubal, Dryden on, xl, 399 

Jubilees, Papal, xxxvi, 314 note 

Judaea, Christian Church in, xliv, 
450 (31) 

Judah, Tamar and, xviii, 100; tribe 
of, xliv, 247 (68) 

Judaism, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 398-9; 
Lessing on, xxxii, 196-207; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 200 (601-3), 201-4, 
228 (673), 229 (675), 375; Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 303-5 

Judas, called Barsabbas, xliv, 464 
{22, 2y), 465 iz2) 

Judas, son of James, xliv, Z73 (16), 
430 (13) 

Judas of Galilee, xliv, 440 {^y^ 

Judas Iscariot, xliv, 373 (16), 417 
{y6), 419 (47-8), 430 (16-20); St. 
Brandan and, xxxii, 154; Bun- 
yan on, xv, no, 313; in Dante's 
Hell, xx, 144; death of, iii, 288; 
Hazlitt on, xxvii, 295; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 2y6 (780) ; tilting with 
Jesus, XX, 229 note 13 

Judges, Bacon on, iii, 137-41; Burke 
on elective, xxiv, 355; Epictetus 
on, ii, 183 (8) J Heraclitus on, 
"^3$ (54); marriage of, iii, 22; 
in Massachusetts, xliii, 73 (20) ; 
righteous, in Paradise, xx, 364- 
7; Pascal on, xlviii, 109 (307); 
pay of, X, 472-3; Pliny on, ix, 
292-3; Shelle>r on false, xviii, 301 ; 
Socrates on. ii, 22', Tseng-tzu on, 
xliv, 67 (19); United States^ xliii, 
202; Winthrop on discretionary 
power of, 96-106, 107-8, 109, III 

Judgment, Burke on standards of, 
xxiv, 1 1 ; Dante on hasty, xx, 
344; intellect and, xlviii, 10; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 360, 363, 364- 
7; human and divine, vii, 308 
(5)» 323-4; Kempis on rash, 226- 
7; Massinger on, xlvii, 886; 
Penn's rule of, i, 404-5; neces- 
sary to poets, xxxix, 312-13; Pas- 



284 



GENERAL INDEX 



cal on, xlviii, 128 (381, 383); 
Rousseau on the, xxxiv, 251-3; 
sentiment compared with, ^ xxvii, 
217-18, 229; taste and, xxiv, 23- 
6; wit compared with, i, 355 
(171-3); xxiv, 17-18 

Judgment Day (see Last Judgment) 
UDICATURE, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

137-41 

Judicature, expenses of, x, 471-3, 
487; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 427; in 
U. S., xliii, 207 (5), 208 (6, 7, 
8); in Utopia, xxxvi, 225 

Judicial Penalties, Winthrop on, 
xliii, 96-106, 107-8, 1 10- 1 1 

Judicial Power, of U. S., xliii, 202- 
3, 209 (11) 

Judicial Proceedings, in Massachu- 
setts, xliii, 73-8, 81 (76) 

Judith, the Jewess, in Paradise, xx, 
420 

Judith, wife of Louis Debonnaire, 
xxxix, 86 

Jugglery, Woolman on, i, 282-3 

Julia, mother of Antony, xii, 334, 

. 348 ^ 

Julia, daughter of Caesar, 285, 295; 
in Dante's Limbo, xx, 20 

Julia, wife of Marius, xii, 277 

Julia, in Duchess of Malfi, wife 
of Castruccio, her jests, xlvii, 
724, 725; with Cardinal, 748-50; 
with Delio, 750-1; with Pescara, 
794; on Bosola, 799; with Bosola, 
800-2; last scene with Cardinal, 

Julian, St., patron saint of hospi- 
tality, xl, 20 note 178 

Julian, Emperor, at Athens, xxviii, 
62; laws against Christians, vii, 
130; iii, 209 

Julianus, death of, xxxvi, 67; 
Machiavelli on, 70 

Julienne, name of Bramimonde, 
xlix, 207 

Juliers, Duke of, xxxv, 104-5 

Julius II, Pope, his aggrandizement 
of the papacy, xxxvi, 41; auxil- 
iaries or, 47; Caesar Borgia and, 
29-30; economy of, 55; Ferrara 
and, 8; impetuosity of, 85-6; 
Luther and, 277, 353 

Julius III, Pope, Cellini and, xxxi, 
401; election of, 399 note i 

Julius, Caius, the physician, xxxii, 

14 
Julius, the centurion, xliv, 490 (i), 

■r 491 (3) ^ ^ . 

JULLANAR OF THE SeA, StOry of, XVI, 
340-54 

June, Bryant's, xlii, 1268-9; Poe on, 

xxviii, 393-4 
Junior, letter to, ix, 354 
Junius, author of Letters, Hazlitt 

on, xxvii, 289 
Junius, etymologist, Johnson on, 

xxxix, 196-7 



Junius, Franciscus, xxvii, 14 
Junius, governor of Asia, xii, 275 
Juno, in the ^neid, xiii, 77-8, 91, 
124, 159-60, 202-3, 208, 253-5,327- 
30, 348-9, 399-400, 423-4; Hercu- 
les and, iii, 208 and note; Iris 
attendant of, xiii, 48; goddess of 
marriage, 158; xl, 249; in the 
Tempest, xlvi, 427 
Juno Ludovici, Schiller on the, 

xxxii, 267 
Juno and the Peacock, fable of, 
xvii, 24 

Junto, Franklin's, i, 59-61, loo-i 
upiter, adulteries of, xxxiv, 381; 
attendants of, xiii, 48; Briareus 
and, iii, 42; Emerson on fable of, 
V, q6; infancy of, viii, 354; Juno 
and, iv, 170; Metis and, iii, 55 
(see also Jove) 
Jupiter, Dante's sixth Heaven, xx, 

^ 364-5 

Jupiter Ammon, worship of, xxxiii, 

26 
Jurassic Period, in Europe, xxx, 

362 
Jurfalez, son of Marsil, xlix, 114, 

167 
Juries, arbitrary damages of, xliii, 

97; Pliny on, ix, 216 
Jurisprudence, Burke on science of, 

xxiv, 243; Descartes on, xxxiv, 8; 

Goethe on, xix, 75; Marlowe on, 

201, 203; Milton on study of, iii, 

255; Pascal on, xlviii, 105 
Jurors, in Massachusetts, xliii. 77 

(49> 50) ; private offences of, 79 

(61) 
Jury Trial, in Massachusetts, xliii, 

75 (29, 30. 31), 81 (76); right 

of, 158; in U. S., 202-3, 208 

(6, 7) 
Just, in Minna von Barnhelm, 

xxvi, 287-93, 295-301, 310-11, 315- 

19. 361, 365 
Justice, ^schylus on, viii, 135, 142; 
Burke on, xxiv, 231, 304; among 
children, xxxvii, 97-8; Dante on 
divine, xx, 367-8; Dante's star of, 
148 note 5; Dennis on poetical, 
xxvii, 198; distributive and com- 
mutative, iii, 344; Emerson on, v, 
163, 194-5; expense of administra- 
tion of, X, 471-3, 487; Franklin's 
rule of, i, 83 ; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
417-23, 426; human and divine, 
xlviii, 83 (233) ; Manzoni on, xxi, 
54; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 292 
(10); More on, xxxvi, 226; of 
nature, v, 27 ^ 94; Pascal on, xlviii, 
38, 104 (294), 107 (297-9), no 
(309, 312), 126 (375)» 310 (878); 
Penn on benefit of, i, 406; Penn 
on delays of, 372 (390-4); Penn's 
maxim of, 353; Plutarch on, xii, 
86; Pope on origin of, xl, 440; 
Shakespeare on human, xlvi, 281; 



GENERAL INDEX 



285 



story of statue of, xlii, 1367-8; 

Winthrop on, xliii, 98, 102 
Justification, Bunyan on, xv, 28, 

215-17; Calvin on, xxxix, 53; 

Ignorance's idea of, xv, 151-2; 

Luther on, xxxvi, 363-97 
Justin of Val Ferree, xlix, 144-5 
Justina and St. Ambrose, vii, 153-4 
Justinian, Dante on, xx, 170, 308; 

Marlowe on Institutes of, xix, 

201 
Justus, Fabius, letter to, ix, 205 
Justus, Titus, xliv, 471 (7) 
Juturna, in the .^neid, xiii, 399- 

400, 402-4, 410, 411, 422, 425-6 
Juvenal, on death, iii, lo; the gro- 
tesque in, xxxix, 368 
Juvenale, Latino (see Manetti) 
Kaabah, the, xlv, 886, 903 note, 

1019 
Kalm, Peter, on American colonies, 

X, 194-5 
Kamadiak, xlv, 814, 844 
Kanakas, the, xxiii, 146-7, 150-5, 

xr ^53-5 

Kangaroo, young of the, xi, 245- 

246 
Kant, Immanuel, Emerson on, v, 

148; life and works, xxxii, 316; 

Metaphysic of Morals, 317-95; 

Schiller on system of, 222 
Kao Ch'ai, xliv, 36 note 12 
Kao-tsung, xliv, 51 (43) 
Kao-yao, xliv, 42 

Kara, daughter of Halfdan, xlix, 
^ 392 
Karen, in The Red Shoes, xvii, 349- 

54 

Karlsefni, Thorfinn, xliii, 15-17, 18, 
20-1 

Karma, cessation of, xlv, 747; fruit- 
ful and barren, 685-90; good and 
bad, 691-2; kinds of, 682-4; meri- 
torious and bodily, 682-4; on ig- 
norance depends, 639, 677-8, 683- 
4; proximate, 669 note 

Karmabandh, xlv, 841 

Kasim, brother of Ali Baba, xvi, 

^ 443. 445-7 

Kassapa, xlv, 764, 765 

Kastrill, in The Alchemist, xlvii, 

577-81, 592-4, 598-602, 609-12,620- 

I, 629-31, 634-5 
Kastriota, John, xlvii, 468 note 9 
Katherine (see Catherine) 
Kauri Pines, Darwin on, xxix, 451 
Kay, Sir, steward of Arthur, xxxv, 

112, 113 
Keats, John, Arnold on, xxviii, 78, 

79; Browning on, xlii, 1142; 

Duried in Rome, xxiii, 4; elegy 

on death of, xli, 879; poems by, 

xli, 894-922 
Keble, John, hymn by, xlv, 579 
Keekin-Glass, The, vi, 453 
Keeling Islands, Darwin on, xxix, 

477-90 



Keightley, Thomas, remarks on his 

Life of Milton, xxviii, ^174, 
Keimer, friend of Franklin, i, 27-9, 

36-7, 52-6, 58; goes to Barbadoes, 

i, 66-7; paper of, 62 
Keith of Ravelston, Bai^lad of, 

xlii, II 60 
Keith, George, i, 23 
Keith, Sir William, character of, 1, 

42-3, 57; Franklin and, 29-32, 35- 

6, 40-3, 51 
Kelly Burn Braes, vi, 463 
Kelp, Darwin on, xxix, 255-7; Smith 

on, X, 154 
Kelvin (see Thomson, Sir William) 
Kemble, Mrs., On Seeing, in 

Yarico, vi, 532 
Kempenfelt, Cowper on, xli, 546, 

T. 547. 

Kempis, Thomas a. Imitation of 
Christ, vii, 209-379; life of, 208; 
Woolman on, i, 230, 231 
Kenelm, St., xl, 42-3 
Kenmure's on and Awa, Willie, 

vi, 447-8 
Kennedy, John, Lines to, vi, 232 
Kennedy, John, Dumfries House, 

vi, 196-7 
Kennet, Bishop, on Swift, xxviii, 14 
Kent, Earl of, in Edward II, in 
quarrels of king and nobles, xlvi, 
8, 10, 15, 30, 31, 32; quarrel with 
king, 34; joins nobles, 36; a cap- 
tive, 50; banished to France, 52, 
53-4; return with Mortimer, 56, 
57; his relenting, 58-9; suspected 
by Mortimer, 70-1; attempts res- 
cue of king, 72, 73-4; death, 76-7 
Kent, in King Lear, with Glouces- 
ter and his son, xlvi, 203-4; 
banished by Lear, 207-9; with 
Lear in disguise, 218-19; with 
Oswald, 220; and Fool, 221, 
222; sent to Gloucester, 228; at 
Gloucester's, quarrel with Oswald, 
233-6; in stocks, 237-8, 239-41; 
set at liberty, 242; in the storm, 
248-50; finds Lear, 251-2- at the 
hovel, 254-6, 257, 258; with Lear 
in his madness, 259-62; flight with 
Lear, 262 ; with gentleman in 
French camp, 272-^; with Cor- 
delia, 285; at Lear s awakening, 
286, 287; Edgar on, 298; final 
scene with Lear, 299, 300-1, 302; 
editor's rernarks on character of, 
202;^ Ruskin on character of, 
xxviii, 142 
Kephalos, and Eos, viii, 307 
Kepler, Johann, Emerson on, v, 
183; heliocentric theory of , xxxix, 
55 note; on tides, xxx, 294 
Keppel, Lord, Burke on, xxiv, 438- 

42 
Kerguelen Land, species of, xi, 441 
Kerim, the fisherman, xvi, 230-1 
Kethe, William, hymn by, xlv, 551 



286 



GENERAL INDEX 



Kevin» St., and the birds, xxxii, 

159-60 
Keymis, Capt., xxxiii, 325, 349, 381, 

Keyserling, Count, on origin of spe- 
cies, xi, 17 
Keziah, daughter of Job, xliv, 143 
Khema, disciple of Buddha, xlv, 600 
Khoja Hoseyn, in Ali Baba, xvi, 

457-9 
Kid and Wolf, fable of, xvii, 16-17 
Kidron, reference to, xli, 498 
Kilhwch and Olwen, tale of, xxxii, 

153, 156-9 
Kilissa, in The Libation-Bearers, 

viii, 100-2 
Killed at the Ford, xlii, 1352-3 

KiLLIECRANKIE, ThE BraES OF, vi, 

381 

KiLLiGREW, Mrs. Anne, Ode to, xl, 

394-7 

KiLMENY, by Hogg, xli, 774-83 

Kin, are less than kind, viii, 81; 
strange the power of, 158 

Kindness, apt to be repeated, i, 102; 
Burns on, vi, 88, 264; Confucius 
on, xliv, 60 (6) ; defined by 
Hobbes, xxxiv, 354; ^ the power 
of, v, 60; reward of, ii, 133 (50); 
stronger than severity, xvii, 36 

King, Archbishop, and Swift, xxviii, 
21 

King, Dr., Bishop of London, xv, 
346; relations with Dr. Donne, 
354-5» 362; Walton on, 358 

King, Gregory, on laborers' income, 
X, 81 

King Lear, Tragedy of, xlvi, 201- 
302; Ruskin on, xxviii, 142; Shel- 
ley on, xviii, 276, 356; stage rep- 
resentation of, xxvii, 325-6 

King Thrushbeard, story of, xvii, 

151-5 

Kingcraft, Confucius on, xliv, 39 
(7), 40 (11, 14), 41 (19), 44 (15), 
45 (16) ^ 

Kingdom of Ends, Kant's, xxxii, 
364-5, 367 note, 369-70 

Kingdoms, True Greatness of, iii, 
76-84 

Kingdoms, all have graves, xl, 259; 
Raleigh on ruin of, xxxix, 74 (see 
also Princedoms) 

Kingfishers, in Cape Verd Islands, 
xxix, 12; S. American, 151 

Kings, councillors of, iii, 55-8; 
Burke on, xxiv, 174-5, 177-9 5 Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 44 (12); EccLE- 
siastes on, 3^j.4 (13-16); Emerson 
on, V, 73; friendships of, iii, 70; 
More on enrichment of, xxxvi, 
170-3; Penn on government of, 
i» 367-70; Raleigh on, xl, 208; 
Ruskin on false and true, xxviii, 
132-3; such divinity doth hedge, 
xlvi, 169-J70 (see also Princes, 
Rulers) 



Kings* Children, The Two, xvii, 

208 

King's College Chapel, Cambridge, 
xli, 694 

King's Evil, reference to, xlvi, 359- 
60 

King's Tragedy, The, xlii, 1200-25; 
remarks on, 1, 23, 28 

Kingship, Calvin on true, xxxix, 
32; Milton on, iv, 387; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 52-3, 57-8, 109 (307-8), no 
(310), 115 (330); Pope on begin- 
ning of, xl, 438; Rousseau on 
origin of, xxxiv, 220-6; Shake- 
speare on, xlvi, 150 

Kingsley, Charles, poems by, xlii, 
1101-5 

Kingston, Sir William, xxxvi, 137-8 

Kinmont Willie, a ballad, xl, 109- 

15 
Kinnersley, Mr., i, 153 
Kirk and State Excisemen, vi, 489 
Kirk of Scotland's Alarm, The, 

vi, 371-5 
Kiss, The Parting, vi, 336 
Kisses, E. B. Browning on, xH, 
965; Burns on, vi, 466; of love, 
Goethe on, xix, 427 
Kitchen God, xliv, 10 note 6 
Klopstock, on^ Burger, xxxix, 343 
Knavery, origin of, xxxiv, 213 
Knight, Chaucer's, xl, 12-13, 34 
Knight of the Redcrosse, Spenser's, 

xxxix, 66, 67 
Knight, Andrew, on bees, xi, 266; 
on hermaphrodites, 109; on cause 
of variability, 25 
Knight-errantry, (Cervantes on tales 
of, xiv,^ 498-502, 506-7, 512-21; 
Don Quixote on, 100-4; expenses 
of, 140-1; literature of, 3, 12, 52- 
8; Manzoni on, xxi, 567; Sancho 
Panza on, xiv, 128-9 
Knighthood, in Elizabethan Eng- 
land, XXXV, 231-4 
Knolles. Francis, xxxiii, 237 
Knolles, Sir Robert, xxxv, 72, 80, 

81 
Know, Celia, xl, 361-2 
Knowing Ones, in Faust, xix, 182 
Knowledge, action and, xxxii, 60-1; 
Augustine, St., on, vii, 68-9, 197- 
8; on authority, xxv, 238-49; xxxii, 
37-9; xxxix, 130; Bacon on, 135, 
148, 150; beauty and, xxxii, 282, 
283, 288; Berkeley on reality of, 
xxxvii, 262-7, 284-5, 296-8; Browne 
on, iii, 328, 336-7; Browne on, 
of self, 276, 279; Bunyan on two 
kinds of, xv, 87; Carlyle on, xxv, 
334; Channing on little, xxviii, 
353; Comte's three^ ages of, xxv, 
108; always conditional, xxxiv, 
360; Confucius on, xliv, 20 (18), 
60 (8); Dante on, xx, 304; desire 
of, inclines to peace, xxxiv, 385; 



Ecclesiastes on, xliv, 340 



385; 
(18). 



GENERAL INDEX 



28} 



347 (12); Epictetus on acquisi- 
tion of, ii, 132 (46), 140 (6s), 
143 (72); of evil, Mrs. Herbert 
on, XV, 380; of evil, Milton on, 
iii, 212-13; iv, 281; is not hap- 
piness, xviii, 428; Harvey on ad- 
vance of, xxxviii, 80; Harvey on 
pursuit of, 66; Hindu doctrine of, 
xlv, 821-2, 860; Hippocrates on 
requisites of, xxxviii, 4; Hobbes 
on attainment of, xxxiv, 360; in- 
tuitive and rational, xlviii, 99-100; 
Kempis on worldly and spiritual, 
vii, 307 (2), 319-20; Locke on, 
xxxvii, hi; Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii. 233 (32) ; Mill on a priori view 
of, XXV, 145-6; Milton on, iv, 170, 
405; Pascal on impossibility of 
certain, xlviii, 29-31; Pascal on 
universality in, 18 (37); Paul, 
St., on, xlv, 511 (1-2; Penn on, 
h ^55» 365 .(307); pleasure the 
basis of, xxxix, 295; Pope on hu- 
man, xl, 420; power from, xxxiv, 
375; xxxix, 148; pride in, ii, 177 
(177); xlviii, 156 (460); progress 
of, due to passions and wants, 
xxxiv, 180-2; progress of, requires 
liberty, iii, 232-3, 241-2; quantity 
and quality of, xxviii, 341-2; as 
recollection, ii, 63-8; Ruskin on 
impossibility of, xxviii, 114; of 
self, Shelley on, xviii, 277; of 
sense and understanding, xxxii, 
382-3; Sidney on object of, xxvii, 
16-17; Socrates on, ii, 7-8; is sor- 
row, xviii, 403; taste dependent 
on, xxiv, 19-21, 26; temperance 
in, iv, 233; timidity of, xix, 29; 
Tennyson on, and wisdom, xlii, 
1016-17; Thoreau on, xxviii, 432- 
3; true and false, xlv, 878; two 
kinds of, xxxiv, 373; vanity of 
human, vii, 213 (3), 214-15, 216- 
17; xix, 22, 44, 69-70; xlviii, 114- 
15; Washington on diffusion of, 
xiiii,_26o; of the world, Locke on, 
xxxvii, 54-S, 79-82, 83-4 (see also 
Learning) 
Knowledge, the shepherd, in Pil- 
grim's Progress, xv, 125-8 
Know-nothing, Mrs., in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 189 
Knox, John, Carlyle on, xxv, 383-4, 
403, 427-8; life and works, xxxix, 
61 note; Preface to Reforma- 
tion in Scotland, 61-3 
Kolita, disciple of Buddha, xlv, 600 
Kolreuter, on the barberry, xi, iii ; 
on fertility of varieties, 326; on 
hermaphrodites, 109; on reciprocal 
crosses, 308; on sterility of spe- 
cies, 299, 314 
Konghelle, town of, v, 359 
Korah, Psalms of sons of, xUv, 198- 
207, 254-5, 257-9 



Koran, Bacon on the, iii, 44 note; 
Browne on the, 289; editor's re- 
marks on, 1, 21; Hume on morals 
of the, xxvii, 217; on duty of 
governors, xxv, 254; legend of 
Seven Sleepers in, xxxviii, 413; 
Pascal on the, xlviii, 198 (597) 

Koran, Chapters from the, xlv, 
885-1021 

Kostbera, wife of Hogni, xlix, 365- 
7, 368 

Kotzebue, August, Carlyle on, xxv, 
420-1; on Tahiti, xxix, 437 

Krishna (see Bhagavad-Gita) 

Kuan Chung, xliv, 12 note, 47 (10), 
48 (17, 18) note 

KuBLA Khan, xli, 718-19 

Kung-hsi Hua, xliv, 15 note 6, 18 
note 3, 19 note 4, 36 (21), 37 
(25) note 25 

Kung-ming Chia, xliv, 48 (14) 

Kung-shan Fu-jao, xliv, 59 (5) 

Kung-shu Wen, xliv, 48 (14), 49 

(19) 

Kung-sun Ch'ao, xliv, 67 (22) 

K'ung Wen, xliv, 16 (14) 

Kung-yeh Ch'ang, xliv, 14 (i) 

Kunz of Gersau, in Wilhelm Tell, 
xxvi, 436-7 

Kuoni, in Wilhelm Tell, xxvi, 
371-6, 394-5 

Kush, son of Sheddad, inscription 
of, xvi, 317-18 

Kusinara, city of , xlv, 652-3 

Kuteyt, the jailer, xvi, 237 

Kypris, reference to, viii, 186 

La Belle Dame Sans Merci, xli, 
917-19 

Labdacus, father of Laius, viii, 
204 

Laberius, quoted, xxxii, 6 

Labienus, lieutenant of Caesar, xii, 
289; death of, 359; in eastern 
campaign, 354, 357; goes over to 
Pompey, 304; story of, 258 

Labor, Burke on necessity of, xxiv, 
113; capital and, x, 6, 69-71, 221- 
2, 284, 303-18, 349; Channing on 
value of, xxviii, 324-5, 327; chil- 
dren sweeten, iii, 20; competition 
of, restraints on, x, 126-38, 143- 
52; competition of, unnaturally 
increased, 138-43; demand for 
(see Wages) ; division of (see 
Division of Labor) ; division of, 
dwarfs the mind, xxviii, 326; 
Ecclesiastes on vanity of, xliv, 
339 (3)» 341 (11. 18-23), 344 (4- 
5), 345 (15-16), 346 (7); Emerson 
on, v, 49-53, loo-i, 297; excessive, 
results of, i, 205-6, 261-3; x, 87; 
xxviii, 326; exchange value of, x, 
50; finished products of, 220; free 
and slave, cost of, 85; Hindu doc- 
trine of, xlv, 813-15, 819-20, 826; 
independent and wage, x, 88-9; 



VOL. L — HC (10) 



290 



GENERAL INDEX 



X, 156; Rousseau on property in, 
xxxiv, 202; Ruskin on ownership 
of, xxviii, 136; taxes on, propor- 
tioned to produce, x, 508-10; 
proportioned to rent, 501-8; taxes 
on transfer of, 528-532 
Land o' the Leal, xli, 573 
Landas, John of, at Poitiers, xxxv, 

37-8, 39, 47y 48, 49 
Landenberg, Berenger von, xxvi, 

386 note 6; Henry of Halden and, 

388; flight of, 462 
Landi, Antonio, xxxi, 367-8, 377 
Landi, Pierro di Giovanni, xxxi, 

34, 88, 91, 178 
Landino, on poets, xxvii, 54 
Landlord, in Minna von Barn- 
helm, xxvi, 287-91, 303-9* 310- 

II, 312-13, 319-22, 356 
Landlords, interest of, x, 217-18 
Landor, Walter Savage, Emerson 

on, V, 329-30; poems by, xli, 922- 

30 

Landresy, Francis I at, xxxviii, 17 

Landscape Gardens, poetic senti- 
ment in, xxviii, 389 

Lane, Edw. William, translator of 
Arabian Nights, xvi, 4 

Lane-Poole, Stanley, reviser of 
Arabian Nights, xvi, 4 

Lane, Ralph, governor of Virginia, 
xxxiii, 266-7 

Lang, A., translator of Homer, 
xxii; Lines on the Odyssey by, 
7; Sonnet on Homer, 347 

Langland, Bishop of Lincoln, xxxvi, 
107 

Langley, Samuel Pierpont, on heat 
from the moon, xxx, 273; on 
radiant heat, 272 

Langobards, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 
118 

Language, anomalies and absurdities 
of, xxxix, 192; Augustine, St., 
on acquisition of, vii, 12; com- 
mand of, its importance, xxviii, 
288-9; custom and, xxxix, 177 
note; Emerson on, v, 177; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 335-43; Johnson on 
uses of, xxxix, 195; a means, not 
an end, iii, 246; natural, xxxix, 
226-7; Pascal on, xlviii, 318 
(912); Pascal's rules of, 15-16, 
20-2; of the passions, xxxiv, 358; 
poets the authors of, xxvii, 347-8; 
race test, xxviii, 244-54, 261-82; 
Rousseau on origin of, xxxiv, 183- 
9, 205, 207; Shelley on use of 
familiar, xviii, 278-9; Stevenson 
on, xxviii, 288-90; superiority of, 
xxvii, 349; in various civiliza- 
tions, xxxix, 443, 444 (see also 
Words) 

Language, and Race, xxviii, 235-83 

Languages, classification of, xi, 459; 
continual change of, xxxix, 211- 



14; dead, study of, v, 267; Des- 
cartes on study of ancient, xxxiv, 
7; Franklin on study of, i, 99- 
100; Hugo on change in, xxxix, 
394; Huxley on study of, xxviii, 
229; Locke on study of, xxxvii, 
145-64, 173-4, 179-81, 192; Milton 
on study of, iii, 249; Montaigne 
on study of, xxxii, 67-8; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 20 (45); Penn on 
teaching, i, 338, 339; Taine on, 
xxxix, 434 
Langue d'oc and d'oil, xxviii, 75-6 
Languet, Hubert, and Philip Sid- 
ney, xxvii, 5 
Lanier, Sidney, poems by, xlii, 

1470-82 
Lankester, E. Ray, on homogeneity, 

xi, 476-7; on longevity, 220 
Lannoy, reference to, xlvii, 767-8 
Lano, Dante on, xx, 58 and note 3 
Laocoon, death _ of, xiii, no- 11; 
statue of, xxxi, 332; the Trojan 
horse and, xiii, 104-5 
Laodamas, in the Odyssey, xxii, 981 

107, 108, 114 
Laodamia, and Evadne, xiii, 226 
Laodamia, xli, 678-83; Emerson on, 

V, 126 
Laodiceans, Bacon on, iii, 12 
Laomedon, the Orchomenian, xii, 

201; Emerson on, v, 286 
Lap-Dog, Epitaph on a, vi, 496 
Lapdog and Ass, fable of, xvii, 13 
Laplace, on tides, xxx, 297, 302 
Lapraik, J., Epistles to, vi, 84-91, 

108-10 
Lares, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 395 
Largeness (see Vastness) 
Largus, Julius, ix, 417 
Laris, and Thymbrus, xiii, 340 
Lark, Milton on the, iv, 32, 383 
La Rochefoucauld, Sainte-Beuve on, 

xxxii, 136 
Lartius, Titus, xii, 158 
Las Vargas, counsellor of Philip 

II, xix, 285 
Lascelles, Captain, Lines on, vi, 

520 
Lass o' Ballochmyle, vi, 230 
Lass of Cessnock Banks, vi, 29-31 
Lass of Ecclefechan, vi, 552-3 
Lass that Made the Bed to Me, 

vi, 564 
Lass wi' a Tocher, vi, 586 
Lassie wi' the Lint-White Locks, 

vi, 540 
Last Conqueror, The, xl, 360 
Last Duchess, The, xlii, 1115 
Last Invocation, The, xlii, 1508 
Last Judgment, a Celano^ on, xlv, 
563-5; Browne on the, iii, 310-12; 
Bunyan on, xv, 40, 84-5; Dante 
on kings at, xx, 369-70; Emerson 
on doctrine of, v, 89-90; Kempis 
on the, vii, 242, 319-20; location 



GENERAL INDEX 



291 



of, belief concerning, xx, 41 note 
1; Milton on the, iv, 12, 146, 
357; Mohammed on, xlv, 890, 
891-2, 896-908, 911, 923 

Last Leaf, The, xlii, 1 444-5 

Last Lines, xlii, 11 56 

Last Ride Together, The, xlii, 
1112 

Last Rose of Summer, xli, 839-40 

Last Supper, xliv, 417 (14-37); 
Pascal on, xlviii, 182 (554) 

Last Time I Came o'er the Moor, 

vi, 491 
Last Wish, The, xlii, 11 65 
Last Word, The, xlii, 11 85-6 
Latagiis, death of, xiii, 351 
Lateran, the, given to Sylvester, 

XX, 82 note 10 
Latimer, and Henry viii, v, 390 
Latin, Augustine, St., on study of, 
vii, 16-19; Carlyle on, xxv, 381; 
Emerson on study of, v, 267; 
Franklin on study of, i, 99-100; 
Huxley on study of, xxviii, 221- 
9; Locke on study of, xxxvii, 
71-2, 81-2, 136, i45-64» 168, 173- 
4, 179-81; Mill on study of, xxv, 
25; Milton on way to study, iii, 
251-3; Montaigne on study of, 
xxxii, 67-8; Penn on study of, i, 
339 (15); wrong way to study, 
iii, 249 
Latin Classics, xxxii, 127 
Latin Hymns, xlv, 558-69 
Latin Literature, More on, xxxvi, 

217; Taine on, xxxix, 461 
Latin Philosophers, xxxvi, 145 
Latini, Brunetto, Arnold on, xxviii, 

76; in Dante's Hell, xx, 64-6 
Latinus, in the ^neid, xiii, 245-7, 
250-2, 364, 372-3, 395-6, 400-2; 
in Dante's Limbo, xx, 20; Dry- 
den on, xiii, 21-2 
Latinus, Titus, dream of, xii, 175 
Latitudinarian, Penn's, i, 411-12 
Latmian Shepherd, Endymion called, 

xl, 248 
Latona, and the frogs, iv, 82; refer- 
ences to, xiii, 93; XX, 231 
Laud, and George Herbert, xv, 
398-9; and the Star Chamber, iii, 
194 
Laudatory^ Personalities, Benth'am 

on, xxvii, 248-9 
Lauderdale, Earl of, and Burke, 
xxiv, 400; translator of Virgil, 
xiii, 69-70 
Laughter, Ecclesiastes on, xliv, 340 
(2); Epictetus on, ii, 175 (165); 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 355 
Launcelot (see Lancelot) 
Laurence, the martyr, vii, 258 (2) ; 

Dante on, xx, 301 note 10 
Laurentia, honors of, ix, 186 
Laurentius, Andreas, xxxviii, TT\ 
on the heart, 79 



Lausus, in the ^neid, xiii, 365-6, 

34i» 35i» 354» 355 
Lautizio, xxxi, 49, 270 
Laval, M. de, xxxviii, 13, i5;xlvm, 

352 note 2 
Laval, Pyrard de, on atolls, xxix, 

491 

Lavinia, in the ^neid, xni, 245, 
■252, 396-7; in Dante's Limbo, xx, 
20 

Law(s), Bentham on opposition ta 
reform of, xxvii, 237-65; correc- 
tion the purpose of, ii, 150 (88); 
defined in Hindoo Scriptures, v, 
294; Goethe on human, xix, ;;5; 
highest, is welfare of people, iii, 
140; Hume on foundation of, 
xxxvii, 386; inadequacy of, and 
revenge, iii, 16; the intention of 
lawgiver is the, xliii, 335; Jones, 
Sir William, on, xli, 593; lan- 
guage of the, how corrupted, x, 
473; Locke on study of, xxxvii, 
169; Luther on, xxxvi, 340; 
Machiavelli on good, 42; Mar- 
lowe on study of, xix, 201, 203; 
Milton on study of, iii, 255; Mon- 
taigne on multiplicity of, xlviii, 
395-6; More on, xxxvi, 225-6; 
More on antiquated, 170, 173; 
natural, superior to statutes, v, 
252-3, 256; necessity of, to con- 
trol officials, xxvii, 247-8; need- 
less where not eluded, xxxiv, 227; 
numerous, effect of, xxxv, 331-2; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 105-6, 114 (325- 
6), 209, 210; Pliny on spirit and 
letter of, ix, 264, 285; Pope on 
origin of, xl, 440; Raleigh on, 
209; Rousseau on origin of , xxxiv, 
216-19; Ruskin on, xxviii, 137; 
Schiller on substitution of, for 
force, xxxii, 22()-zq>\ Smith on, 
and men, xxvii, 248-9; Socrates 
on obedience to, ii, 39-41 J Win- 
throp on penal, xliii, 96-111 (see 
also Government Intervention) 

Law, John, Burke on, xxiv, 390 

Lawes, Mr. H., To, on His Airs, 
iv, 83 

Lawgivers, great, iii, 136 

Lawmakers, Winthrop on, xliii, 104 

Lawrence, St., on the Church, xxxv;, 
270 

Lawrence, To Mr., iv, 87 

Lawsuits, Confucius on, xliv, 40 
(13); St. Paul on, xlv, 507 (1-7) 

Lawyer, Chaucer's, xl, 19-20 

Lawyers, excluded from Utopia, 
xxxvi, 225; Franklin on, i, 16; 
Jesus on, xliv, 392 (45-52) ; 
judges and, iii, 138-9; Milton on 
mercenary, 250; remuneration of 
(see^ Professions); Sidney on, 
xxvii, 18 

Laxness, Confucius on, xliv, 18 (i) 

Lay, nautical term, xxiii, 28 note 



292 



GENERAL INDEX 



Lay Thy Loop in Mine, Lass, vi, 

589 
Lazarus, xliv, 404 (20-5) ; Browne 
on, iii, 286; Dives and, xv, 36; 
the Jews and, vii, 310 (2); Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 22;^ (658), 270 

Laziness, Locke on, xxxvu, 114-17, 

189-90 
Lazo, Darwin on the, xxix, 54-5 
Lazzaretto, in Milan plague, xxi, 

600-3 
Lead Pyrophorus, xxx, 56 note; 
combustion of, 169, 176-7; how 
made, 176 note 
Lead-trees, xxx, 84 note 
Leader, The Lost, xlii, 11 09 
Leaders, developed by disaster, xix, 

385; of sedition, iii, 43 
Leagues, More on, xxxvi, 226-8 
Leah, type of active life^ xx, 259 

note 4 
Leander, reference to, xx, 262 
Leandra, in the goatherd's story, 

xiv, 526-30 
Lear, King, Tragedy of, xlvi, 203- 
302; editorial remarks on, 202; 
Ruskin on, xxviii, 142; Shelley 
on, xviii, 276, 356; stage repre- 
sentations of, xxvii, 325-6 
Lear, in King Lear, divides king- 
dom between daughters, xlvi, 204- 
6; disowns Cordelia, 206-7; re- 
signs power, 207; quarrel with 
Kent, 207-8; with France and 
Burgundy, 209-11; coldly treated 
by Goneril, 217-18, 219-20; with 
Kent in disguise, 218-19; with Os- 
wald, 220; and the Fool, 221-3; 
scene with Goneril, 223-6; depar- 
ture for Gloucester, 228-9; ar- 
rival at Gloucester's, 239-41; with 
Gloucester, 241-2; with Regan and 
Cornwall, 242-4; refused hospital- 
ity by both daughters, 245-7; goes 
out into storm, 248-9; in the 
storm, 250-2; at Edgar's hovel, 
254-8; his madness, 260-2; warned 
to fly, 262 ; conveyed to Dover, 
263; refuses to see Cordelia, 272) 
in fields near Dover, mad, 279- 
82; taken by Cordelia's messen- 
gers, 282; awakening from sleep, 
with Cordelia, 286-8; taken pris- 
oner, 291-2* ordered to be killed 
by Edmund, 299; with body of 
Cordelia, 300-1; with Kent, 301; 
death, 301-2 
Lear, Bagehot on character of, 
xxviii, 198-9; editorial remarks 
on character of, xlvi, 202 
Learchus, Dante on, xx, 125 
Learning, and actions, xxxii, 60-1 ; 
arms compared with, xiv, 393-8; 
Confucius on, xlir, 5 (i), 6 (14), 
26 (13), 49 (25); end of, iii, 248; 
four ages of, 147; Hume on, 1 



xxxvii, 310; Locke on, 76, 82-3, 
136-63; Montaigne on, xxxii, 34; 
Sidney on object of, xxvii, 16-17; 
Tzu-hsia on, xliv, 5 (7), 66 (5) 
(6) ; (see also Knowledge) 

Leaves of Grass, Preface to, xxxix, 
409-32; remarks on, 3 

Leblanc, Baptiste, xlii, 1385 

Leblanc, Rene, the notary in Evan- 
geline, xlii, 1365-8, 1408 

Lechartier, M., xxxviii, 321-2 notes 

Lechery, the sin, in Faust us, xix, 
222 

Lechery, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 190 

Leda, mother of Castor and Pollux, 
XX, 403 note 14; in Homer's 
Hades, xxii, 159 

Lee, E., translator of Sainte-Beuve, 
xxxii, 107 

Lee, Fitzhugh, at Gettysburg, xliii, 

365 

Lee, Richard Henry, xliii, 160 note 

Lee, Gen. Robert E., Farewell to 
His Army, xliii, 449; at Gettys- 
burg, 402, 425; terms of surren- 
der at Appomattox, 447-8 

Leezie Lindsay, vi, 580 

Le fri flaith, xlix, 220, 245, 260, 
263 

Legacy-taxes, x, 529, 532 

Legal Language, corruption of, x, 

473 

Legal Penalties, Winthrop on, xliii, 
96-106, 107-8, IIO-II 

Legal Pleading, Pliny on, ix, 214-8, 
236-7 

Legal Tender, in England, x, 46; 
in United States, xliii, 198 (10) 

Legal Technicalities, More on, xxxvi, 
225-6 

Legality, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 23, 27-8 

Legislation, Burke on methods of, 
xxiv, 317-18; does not make the 
state, V, 249-50; by experience 
and fiat, xxxiv, 13; Lowell on, 
xxviii, 454; in Utopia, xxxvi, 188 

Legislative Commissions, Mill on, 
XXV, 169-70 

Legislative Powers, in United States, 
xliii, 192-9 

Legislators, Burke on qualities of, 
xxiv, 317; fame of, compared with 
poets, xxvii, 349 

Le^ouve, M., xxxix, 390 

Leibnitz, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 291; 
Hobbes and, xxxiv, 318; supposed 
inventor of fluxions, 128-9; on 
theory of grravitation, xi, 520 

Leicester, in Edward II, xlvi, 61-2, 
64-8 

Leicester, Earl of, on Chaucer, 
xxxix, 175, 177 

Leif the Lucky, his baptism, xlui, 
5; his expedition of dificovery, 8* 



GENERAL INDEX 



293 



12; Gudrid, and 14, 15; his house 
in Vinland, 15, 18; Freydis and, 20 

Leiodes, and the bow of Ulysses, xxii, 
299; death of, 315-16 

Leisure, Milton on, iv, 36; Pennon, 
employment of, i, 344-5 ; Rufus on, 
ii, 118 (v) 

Lela Zoraida, xiv, 392 

Leland, on copper mines, xxxv, 341; 
on England, 243, 245 

Lelius, and Blosius, xxxii, 81 

Lemnos, crime of, viii, 97 

Lemovians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 121 

Lemur, Darwin on the flying, xi, 
185-6 

Lemures, mentioned, iv, 13 (21) 

Lending, Penn on, i, 343 (47) 

Length, less striking than depth, 
xxiv, 63 

Lennox, in Macbeth, xlvi, in camp 
with Duncan, 307; at Macbeth's, 
327-8, 329; at the banquet, 340, 
341, 344; conversation with lord, 
346-7; with Macbeth, 352; in war 
against Macbeth, 365, 366 

Lenore, by Poe, xlii, 1273-4^ 

Lent, Calvin on meat in, xxxix, 39; 
Herbert on, xv, 408 

Lentulus Spinther, the consul, con- 
sulship of, xii, 254; letter to, ix, 
123; property of, 156; recall of, 
100, 102 

Lentulus Sura, the consul, Antony 
and, xii, 334, 338; Caesar and, 
299-300, 301; in Catiline con- 
spiracy, 238-40, 279-80; Cicero on 
death of, ix, 165; executed, 243, 

251 

Leo X, Pope, xxvii, 409; Cellini 

and, xxxi, 14; Luther to, xxxvi, 

353-62; Machiavelli on, 42^ 

Leo, Valerius, and Caesar, xii, 289 

Leocritus, in the Odyssey, xxii, 28-9, 

315 
Leolin, imprisonment of, xxxii, 151 
Leoline, Sir, (see Christabel) 
Leon, St., on God, xlviii, 358 
Leon of Salamis, ii, 19; Socrates 

and, 254 (66) 
Leonardo da Vinci (see Vinci) 
Leonela, in story of Curious-Im- 
pertinent, xiv, 341-362; 368-71 
Leoni, Leone, xxxi, 257 note 3 
Leosthenes, xii, 220 
Leotychides, son of Alcibiades, xii, 

132-3 

Lepanto, battle of, iii, 83; Cervantes 
at, xiv, 3; Cervantes on, 404-5 

Lepidotos, Herodotus on the, xxxiii, 
38 

Lepidus, Catius, letter to, ix, 262 

Lepidus, Marcus ^milius, xii, 327, 
330; Africa allotted to, 257; An- 
tony and, 347; Brutus ana, 344; 
Cicero on, ix, 69, 185, 187, 188; 



consul with Caesar, xii, 341; 
death of, xxxii, 14; left in Rome 
by Caesar, xii, 338; put out of 
government, 378; in the triumvi- 
rate, 265, 348-9 

Lerna, Lake, viii, 179 note 40 

Leroux, Paul, his article on God, v, 
288 

Lessing, Gotthold Ephraim, and 
Burke, xxiv, 28; Education of 
the Human Race, xxxii, 193- 
217; life and works, xxvi, 286; 
Minna von Barnhelm, 287-366; 
Taine on, xxxix, 437 

Lesson, A, xii, 629-30 

Let Me in This Ae Night, vi, 

553 

Let There Be Light, xiv, 586 

Let Us Drink and Be Merry, 
xl, 373 

Lethe, Dante on, xx, 62y 264; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 125, 126 

Letiche, story of, xlii, 1366 

Leto, in Egyptian mythology, xxxiii, 
80-1; Jove and, xl, 234; oracle 
of, xxxiii, 42, 80; Tityos and, 
xxii, 167; worshipped in Egypt, 
xxxii, 33 

Letters, Hobbes on invention of, 
xxxiv, 335; invented by Prome- 
theus, viii, 172 

Letters, men of, why so called, 
xxviii, 104 

Letters, Bacon on business, iii, 
123; Goethe on, xxxix, 266; 
Locke on writing of, xxxvii, 172- 
3; Pliny on unsatisfactoriness of, 
ix, 286; Stevenson on, xxviii, 
290 

Letters of Cicero, ix, 83-189; re- 
marks on, 5, 81-2 

Letters of Pliny, ix, 195-438; re- 
marks on, 193-4 

Letters on ^Esthetic Education, 
xxxii, 219-313 

Letters on the English, Voltaire's, 
xxxiv, 65-162 

Letty's Globe, xii, 947_ 

Leucaspis, in Hades, xiii, 222 

Leucippus, school of, iii, 44 

Leucothea, Milton on, iv, 70, 326; 
in the (Ddyssey, xxii, 80 

Leuthold, in Wilhelm Tell, xxvi, 
424-7, 434, 436 

Leuwenhoek, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 129 

Levana and Our Ladies of Sorrow, 
xxvii, 335-41 

Level, Lyell on changes of, xxxyiii, 
428-31, 433-4 (see also Elevation, 
Subsidence) 

Leveridge, Mr., xliii, 148 

Levers, velocity and power in, xxx, 
192 

Levet, Dr. Robert, On the Death 
of, xii, 515-16 

Levi, and Jesus, xliv, 372 (27-9) 



294 



GENERAL INDEX 



Leviathan, in Book of Job, xliv, 
140 (1-34); Job's description of, 
Burke on, xxiv, 59; old Irish 
idea of, xlix, 225; references to, 
iv, 95, 240; XV, 135, 136; xliv, 
239 (14), 279 (26) 

Leviathan, First Part of, 
Hobbes's, xxxiv, 317-434 

Levune, in Edward II, xlvi, 45, 51, 

56 
Lexicographers, Johnson on, xxxix, 

Lexington, battle of, xliii, 166; 
Longfellow on battle of, xlii, 

1351 
Lewars, Jessie, Complimentary 

Versicles to, vi, 588-9 
Lewars, Jessy, Inscription to, vi, 

591 
Lewes, G. H., on Egyptian races, 

xi, 220 
Ley, Lady Margaret, To the, iv, 

81 
Li, son of Confucius, xliv, 34 (7) 
Liandola, Loderingo di, xx, 98 

note 4 
Lianour, Duke, xxxv, 131-2 
Liar, Mr., in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 101-2 
Liars, fable on, xvii, 28 
Libation-Bearers, ^^schylus's, viii, 

71-114; Voltaire on, xxxix, 382 
Libeller's Self-Reproof, vi, 291 
Libels, in Athens, iii, 203-4; in 

Rome, 205; Franklin on, i, 96-7 
Liberality, in children, xxxvii, 97, 

98; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 354,. 380; 

Penn on, i, 344; of princes, 

xxxvi, 54-6; proverb on, xvi, 212 
Liberators, great, iii, 136 
Liberties, The Body of, xliii, 70- 

89 
Liberty, art and, xxxn, 223, 224; 
Burice on, xxiv, 156-7, 208-11, 
394; Byron on, xli, 832; content- 
ment and, 535; duty of respect- 
ing others', xxxii, 360-1; Emerson 
on, V, 256, 260; extreme ideas 
of, iii, 22; Goldsmith on ills of, 
xli, 541-2; government and, xliii, 
214-15, 258; Hamilton on jealousy 
of, 214; history of doctrine of, 
XXV, 163-4; Hume on religious, 
xxxvii, 429; inequality not incon- 
sistent with, iv, 203; intellectual 
growth and, xxviii, 373; Kempis 
on, vii, 236 (2), 297-8, 308 (i); 
of labor, Smith on, x, 129-30; 
licence and, iv, 82; love of, in 
children, xxxvii, 60-1, 90, 117-18; 
Lovelace on, xl, 365-6; Milton 
on, iii, 199, 232-8; iv, 4, 117, 
347-8; natirral, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
407, natural. Smith's theory of, 
X, 4, 263; necessity and, Hume 
on, xxxvii, 371-91; Pascal on 



excessive, xlviii, 127 (379) ; phy« 
losophy and, xxxvii, 416, 429; 
"pious editor's" creed of, xlii, 
1452; refinement and, xxxii, 250- 
I, 269; Rousseau on love of, 
xxxiv, 220-1; Rousseau on re- 
nunciation of, 222-3; Schiller on, 
xxxii, 279-80; Smith on, x, 466; 
social, xxxiv, 408-10, 425-6; of 
speech and press in U. S., xliii, 
207 (i); standing armies and, 
X, 469-70; Tennyson on, xlii, 
1032; on trial in America, xliii, 
243-4; Vane, Sir Henry, on, 128- 
9, 130-2; Ward, Nathaniel, on, 
70; Washington on love of, 252- 
3; of the will (see Free Will); 
Whitman on, xxxix, 422-3; Wool- 
man on, i, 211; works on, xxv, 6 

Liberty, Essay on, Mill's, xxv, 203- 
325; remarks on, 160-64 

Liberty, Christian, Luther on, 
xxxvi, 362-97 

Liberty of the Press, Franklin on, 
i. 96-7; James Mill on, xxv, 71; 
John Stuart Mill on, 218-59; Mil- 
ton on (see Areopagitica) ; in 
U. S., xliii, 207 (i) 

Libicocco, the demon, xx, 90, 93 

Libo, and Antony, xii, 339 

Libra, the constellation, referred 
to, XX, 151 note 2 

Libraries, Hunt on, xxvii, 310; in- 
vention of, xxviii, 57; Ruskin on 
public, 135; subscription, pro- 
posed by Franklin, i, 69-70 

Libya, Herodotus on, xxxiii, 12, 20 

Licences, Smith on, x, 524-5 

Lichas, in the ^Eneid, xiii, 337 

Lichas, servant of Alcides, iv, 124 

Licinianus, Valerius, Pliny on, ix, 
264-7 

Licinus, Largius, and professional 
applauders, ix, 230-1 

Lidgate, Dan John, xxxix, 8 

Lie, The, xl, 207-10 

Liebig, on fermentation, xxxviii, 
.362-75 

Liemer, Harrison on the, xxxv, 370 

Lies, cross, iii, 134; some, never 
penned, vi, 79; Stevenson on, 
xxviii, 287, 292-3 (see also False- 
hood) 

Life, advancement in, Ruskin on, 
xxviii, 96-7, 1 3 1-2; Arabian prov- 
erb on, xvi, 18; Bacon on mo- 
notony of, iii, 10; beginning of, 
on the earth, xi, 360-1; the best 
teacher, xxviii, 351; bridge of, in 
Mirza, xxvii, 78-80; Browne on 
length of, 306 (42), 307 (43); 
Buddha on, xlv, 592, 673, 709-10; 
Burke on pleasure in idea of, xxiv, 
36, 38; Burns on, vi, 152, 177-8, 
204, 325, 334, 507, 585; Carlyle 
on, xxv, 334-6; Cicero on, ix, 76- 



GENERAL INDEX 



29S 



7: Cicero on various ages of, 57- 
8; Cory on, xlii, 1159-60; Dante 
on, XX, 5 note i ; Darwin's tree 
of, xi, 143-4; Dryden's lines on, 
xxxiv, 137; EccLESiASTEs on van- 
ity of, xliv, 339-42, 345 (15-17). 
346 (3-6) ; Emerson on, v, 26, 30, 
67-8, 76-7 \ Epictetus on, ii, 141 
(68), 163 (124), 174 (159), 181 
(189). 182 (i), 183 (9), 184 (20); 
Goethe on false study of, xix, 
74; Gray on, xl, 464; Greek 
dramatists on, viii, 279, 294-5, 
390; Harvey on cause of, xxxviii, 
89, 90, 91, 107; Herrick on, xl, 
347, 348, 350; Hindu conception 
of, xlv, 806, 860, 862; Job on, 
xliv, 93-4; Jonson on worth of, 
xl, 298; Keats's seasons of, xli, 
920-1; Kempis on, vii, 293 (3-4), 
326-7; Kempis on the inward, 
248-50; Longfellow on, xlii, 1330, 
1341; Lowell on, 1460; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 205 (17), 210 
(10), 214 (3), 223 (50), 231 (24), 
233 iZ3)y 2Z7 (16), 243 (46), 250 
(40), 253 (61), 260 (24), 274 
(30), 275, 305 (31); Mill on, XXV, 
36; Milton on, IV, 84, 336; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 24, 26, 27 \ not 
the result of chance, xxxiv, 259- 
60; Omar Khayyam on, xli, 971, 
972, 981, 982; Pascal on, xlviii, 
61 (156), 71, 79(213). 129(386); 
Penn on, 1, 399; Plato on, ii, 251 
(48); Pliny on, ix, 248; Poe on, 
xlii, 1291-2; Pope on, xl, 418; 
preservation of, as a duty, xxxii, 
328; Psalm on vanity of, xliv, 
193-4; Pythagoras on, xxxii, 47-8; 
Rossetti, C. G., on, xlii, 1229; 
Scott on, xli, 766; Shakespeare 
on, xlvi, 135, 370; Shelley on, xli, 
892; Socrates on value of , ii, 37; 
Spencer on principle of, xi, 318; 
struggle for (see Struggle for Ex- 
istence) ; Thackeray on, xlii, 11 00; 
universal interest in, xix, 13; Web- 
ster on, xlvii, 811; without air 
(see Anaerobian Life) ; without 
light, xxxviii, 380-1 (see also Or- 
ganic Beings) 
Life, by Bacon, xl, 358-9 
Life, by Barbauld, xli, 568 
Life, by Drummond, xl, 335-6 
Life, A Psalm of, xlii, 1316 
Life, The River of, xli, 794-5 
Life, The Stream of, xlii, 1165-6 
Life, What Is Our, xl, 210 
Life is a Dream, (Talderon's, xxvi, 

5-68; remarks on, 4 
Ligarius, Quintus, trial of, xji, 259 
Ligatures, Harvey on, xxxviii, 116- 
■ 21 ; Lister on, 28j 
Ligea, reference to, iv, 70 
Liger, in the ^neid, xiii, 316, 346-7 
Light, in architecture, xxiv, 7 1 ; 



Berkeley on, xxxvii, 218-19; com- 

gosition of white, xxx, 274-5; 
>escartes on, xxxiv, 36, 371 dif- 
fraction of, xxx, -281; effects of 
various waves of, 273-4; frequency 
of vibration, 283; from (^^me, its 
cause, II 0-14, 164; heat from. 
27i\ intermitting, effects of, xxiv, 
74; invisible, xxx, 271; knowl- 
edge of, 272-3; Milton on, iv, 
138; Newton's discoveries in, 
xxxiv, 124-7; Noel's definition of, 
xlviii, 432 note; Pascal on, 125 
(368) ; photographer's or actinic, 
xxx, 272\ polarization of, 277-9; 
produced by chemical affinity, 81; 
refraction of, Faraday on, 31-5; 
sublimity of, xxiv, 70-1; velocity 
of, xxx, 283; vibrations of, 268- 
71, 275-6; wave lengths of, 280-3 
Light, The Wave Theory of, xxx, 

263-86 
Light Brigade, Charge of the, xlii, 

1039 
Light of Other Days, xli, 837-8 
Light of Stars, The, xlii, 1317-18 
Light Shining Out of Darkness, 

xlv, 575 
Lightborn, in Edward II, xlvi, 74-5, 

78-81 
Lighthouses, Franklin on, i, 165 
Light-mind, Mrs., in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 189-190 
Lightning, Burke on grandeur of, 
xxiv, 70; Darwin on effects of, 
xxix, 7^-Z\ Franklin on, i, 153*5; 
tubes formed by, xxix, 70-2 
Like, buys like, v, 249; cures like, 

iv, 416 
Like as the Culver, xl, 257 
Likeness, of all things, v, 240-1; 
attracts likeness, ii, 270 (9) ; ix, 
26; in unlikeness, xxxix, 301 
Lilies, Jesus on the, xliv, 394 i,2j^ 
Lilies of Queens* Gardens, xxviii, 

139-68 
Lilinau, story of, xlii, 1403 
Lilith, Adam's wife, xix, 172 
Liliuokalani, Queen, xliii, 464 note 
Lilla, Hafiz on, v, 225 
Lilly, Johnson on, xxxix, 2z(> 
Lima, Darwin on, xxix, 389 
Limbo, Dante's, xx, 17-21; Milton's, 
iv, 149-50; spirits in, xx, 10 note 3 
Limbs, and jaws, related, xi, 155 
Lime Light, Faraday on, xxx, 111-12 
Limestone, composition of, xxx, 

T .343-4 . . r 

Lime-water, composition of, xxx, 158 
Limitations, Emerson on, v, 158-9 
Linacer, Johnson on, xxxix, 236 
Lincoln, Abraham, by Lowell, 

xxviii, 441-63 
Lincoln, Abraham, absence of dema- 
gogism, xxviii, 462; his American- 
ism, 451-2; Amnesty Proclama- 
tion, xliii, 442-5; difficulties of| 



296 



GENERAL INDEX 



xxviii. 446-8; EMANCirATioN Proc- 
lamation, xliii, 344-6; First In- 
augural Address, 334*43; Gettys; 
BURG Address, 441 ; Henry IV 
compared with, xxviii, 450*i*» 
Letter to Mrs. Bixby, xliii, 446; 
Lowell's lines on, xlii, 1462-3; not 
a ready-made ruler, xxviii, 45-^-3; 
power and fame at death, 463; 
Second Inaugural Address, xliii, 
450-2; self-unconsciousness, xxviii, 
A62; slavery problem and, 454-60 
(see also Emancipation Proc- 
lamation); statesmanlike quali- 
ties of, 445-6; tentative policy, 
448-50, 453-4; trustfulness in the 
people, 461-2; Whitman on death 
of, xlii, 1496-7 

Lincoln, Death of, by Bryant, xlii, 
1272-3 

Lincoln, Earl of (see Lacy, Sir 
Hugh) 

Lindsay, Lady Anne, Auld Robin 
Gray, xli, 570-1 

Lindsay, Sir James, and Bishop of 
Durham, xxxv, 98-9; and Matthew 
Redman, 97-8, 100; at Otterburn, 

93 
Lindsey, Earl of, Dryden on, xvni, 9 
Lineage, Don Quixote's two man- 
ners of, xiv, 184 
Ling, Duke of Wei, xliv, 49 (20), 

5^ (O 
Lingende, on miracles, xlviii, 300 

(846) 
LinnseuSj on American plants, xxviii, 

419; Emerson on, v, 18; on genus, 

xi, 452; on increase of plants, 79; 

mistake of, 463 
Linnet, The Green, xli, 657-8 
Linos, song of, xxxiii, 41 
Linus, in Dante's Limbo, xx, 20; 

Sidney on, xxvii, 8 
Lion, flesh of the, xxix, 129 
Lion and Four Oxen, fable of, 

xvii, 32 
Lion and Fox, fable of, xvii, 24 
Lion and Mouse, fable of, xvii, 

Lk>n and Statue, fable of, xvii, 24 

Lion, Fox, and Other Beasts, 
fable of, xvii, 42 

Lion in Love, fable of, xvii, 41 

Lion, The Sick, xvii, 13 

Lion's Share, The, fable of, xvii, 
10 

Lion-ant, of Australia, xxix, 466 
note 

Lionel, Sir, at the Abbey, xxxv, 
no; at court, in; in captivity, 
176; believed to be dead, 178; 
his character, 182; attempts to 
slay Sir Bors, 183-5; combat with 
Sir Colgrevance, 185-6; combat 
with Bors prevented by miracle, 
186-7; ^is return home, «i6 



Lippi, Filippino, xxxi, 24 note, 25 
note 3 

Lippi, Francesco, and Ce/lini, xxxi, 
25, 29 

Lipsius, on criticism, xxxix, 260; 
Montaigne on, xxxii, 32 

Liquefaction, cold causea by, xxx^ 
38-9 

Liquids, cohesion of, xxx, 40-1 

Liquor Trade, Mill on regulation of, 
XXV, 309-10 

Liquors, duties on, x, 381-2 

Liris, death of, xiii, 385 

Listening, the art of, ii, 147 
(81) 

Lister, Joseph, On Antiseptic Prin- 
ciple, xxxviii, 271-82; life and 
work, 270; Pasteur on, 389 

Lister, William, in Tyler's Rebellion, 
xxxv, 75 

Listlessness, Locke on, xxxvii, 114- 
17, 189-90 

Literary and Philosophical Es- 
says, xxxii 

Literature, Arnold on .good, xxviii, 
91; Carlyle on, xxv, 458, 464; 
Carlyle on modern, 353-5; clas- 
sical and romantic, xxxix, 363; 
criticism of manners, morals, and 
religion in, xxvii, 232-4; effeminacy 
of our, V, 53; Emerson on, 161; 
Huxley on ancient, xxviii, 221-9; 
Ruskin on encouragement of, 
134; Seneca on, xlviii, 123 note 
6; for subsistence, remarks on, 
XXV, 57-8; Taine on study of, 
xxxix, 433-40, 460-1 ; Taine on, 
as transcript of its times, 433-40, 
460-1; tested by time, 218-19; 
Thoreau on nature in, xxviii, 426- 
7; Whitman on simplicity in, 
xxxix, 418; why so called, xxviii, 
104 

Litigation, enemy of right and 
wrong, vi, 308 

Little Briar-Rose, story of, xvii, 
146-9 

Little-Faith, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 130-37 

Little Ida's Flowers, xvii, 355-62 

Little John, in Robyn Hode, in ad- 
venture with sorrowful knight, xl, 
i3i» 132-3. 135-6, 138, i39» 140, 
141 ; with sheriff of Nottingham, 
149-55; in adventure with monks, 
157-60, 162; at archery contest, 
168; saved by Robyn Hode, 169- 
70; returns to green wood, 172, 
182; with Robyn at court, 186 

Little Red Cap, xvii, 116-20 

Little Round Top, at Gettysburg, 
xliii, 357 

Little Sea-Maid, The, xvii, 255* 
76 

Little Snow-White, xvii, 155-64 

Littleness, as cause of beauty, xxiv. 



GESY,liAl. TVDEX 



»7 



httt4ma^ nm^ xlsr^ 5j sou, ^ Ct>, 
lirer^ Harirejr oo tlM, xxxwm^ smu- 

if; ^bcrfos afld^ mS 
Itrtmc Too home. On, iCSL ^» 

Pttreln«e, xfiti, 2^ O0CC 
Lhrre, Frcadi coia, x* jj 

OS fiH •! dK great, xxxiil, 74 
note: IJifiMJij «■« xxra, 414; 
31111^0 dcfiiglit m, xxw, iji; 00 
mflM^ oi Vktrmth, ibl, JS4; 
Sfcoleir «i, aa wrii, j $g, j6i; tlie 

liwardi iUa, Cdtie kard, 

*74 
Lfz, W JfhiaiB, idfi, 1^7 
LceariM, of dalifiiDBO Utomat 

40^f j; Su AMf riff M, fio 
Lj<kt djmirtrr of HriaMBSv xfiz^ ^7» 

Uhm^ Darwia on ^e wiM, tto, 
I7^ft2; Francis Pictijr on« a tnit, 

Uoytfy Caplani* 
$ii'f2 

¥zT9Aaj oo^ 



5^:^-5 



^ Bwitiomy, 



X, 254^; in Scadand, 
re on, sdriy 102; 
X, ^91-4; bf 

\joSatOMt Doniy 

xxsi, its 
Local Aimmimrithm, aboM» «^ x, 

Lo<al Fiff n w i» x» 4^-^ 
L/xniixTjjL xls, 7^9-70 
Lccx or Mao, To a, xfi» 7S7^ 
Lock nu Dooa, LAxmon, jdi, 704- 

7« 
Lodbe, Jolni. on iiftinnriH^ xxxw, 
^i note; B erikelej and^^fS; on 
■^ xxir, ijo-i; 

ww^ xxiT, iji: Has! 

xxTB, 2Sir2; Os Hm mo m Vrnder- 

nm m dimt , u iS; Tf nai r 

J07, jjo-i : on innate 

i; fife and v«*l^ 1-4; 

xxnr, jj 

209; T m ov e mws ComcmamoQ Img- 



#<* 4t; «■ 



cxTum, xxrrfi, y^TSl UnHarfan' 
inn and, xxzir^ S5; Voltarre on, 
toyto'f on nni and Ind^awnt* 

XXlir, 17 

Loddttft, L^^ ^ ScMt, CarlTle on, 

xxr, 4%2r^^ 
LocsMT HiifiLy xfiiy s#a9^9 

Ifgiiiiifiin of Hie, xxf. 




•^ t*^* 

Fmm Vr, xl, ^1^ 

\jodifptag, flttteHi^b o^ South on, x» 

L4H^ xbonHM^ and W26ani Pcnn, 
jocxitr, 75 

14 
t^gan, JoIh, 

LocAM, Majoo, EnsTut 70, H, zsj' 

xi, j^ 

LocAn BJBAa, ^ 49^ 

Lesie, Bacon on, xxnx, i ja, 1 j^ 
1^1, 151, i^; BacMi on fltadf of, 
in, 1^; GiHTle on, xxr, ^^J7-*; 
anco on, laaaw. 16-17; ooctke 




V' ^^ "^ J ^ xxxrn, ji^; 
Kane on, xxm, ^17^ jiS; Locke 

•■ *H$Li!S ***^ »47^ i^ 

note 10: Mai on mmif of, xxr, 
iS-19; HVo WM% in, in«s, iit- 
iS, ij4^ i4J^; MSkam on itndlr 
of, ni,^y>, *5$; M an i ni m i on, 
xxxo, 44; Fucal on, xhnH, 415. 
4«A _ __ 



Looa o^ BccMAX, xfi, 5S5 
'of, xxxr, 193 

r, 617 
- or Vf 




Mie 19 

^7, 240, 244, 245, 247, 534, 235- 

Mnon, Hootuj, adi, 692^ 

ondon, Carfyle on, ▼. 135; Tmer- 

iteeti of; 1, uM; 



298 



GENERAL INDEX 



Lord Mayors of, xxxv, 293; 

Herschel on, v, 347; industries of, 

X, 276-7; rent and lodging in, 

125-6 
London Punch, Emerson on, v, 470 
London Review, The, xxv, 4, 129- 
, 30, 133-4, 138-42 
London Square, In a, xlii, 11 66 
London Times, The, Emerson on, 

V, 466-71 
London University, Harrison on, 

xxxv, 391-2, 400, 403 
Long, George, translator of Marcus 

Aurelius, ii, 191 
Long Parliament, free printing sup- 
pressed by, iii, 194, 195-7; Milton 

on the, 200-2, 238, 243; xxviii, 

194-5; theatres closed by, xviii, 3 
Long Parliament, New Forcers of 

Conscience Under the, iv, 82-3 
Longevity, Browne on, iii, 307 (43); 

Cicero on, ix, 71; Darwin on, xi, 

219-20; its effect on traditions, 

xlviii, 211-12 
Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth, 

poems by, xlii, 1316-1413; Poe on 

Waif of, xxviii, 391-2 
Longing, xli, 818-19 
Longinus, Hugo on, xxxix, 362; 

quoted, xxiv, 46 
Longstreet, Gen., at Gettysburg, 

xliii, 365, 366, 370 
Lope Ruyz, tale of, xiv, 166-8 
Lope de Vega, quoted, xxxix, 384 
Lopez, Dr., xix, 233 note i 
Lopez, Francisco, xxxiii, 327, 328-9 
Lord Gregory, vi, 483 
Lord Thomas and Fair Annet, xl, 

61-5 
Lord Ullin's Daughter, xli, 792-4 
Lord's Prayer, The, xliv, 389 (2-4) ; 

Dante on, xx, 189; Herbert on 

the, XV, 407; Locke on the, xxxvii, 

141 
Lords of Articles (Scotland), xxiv, 

267 note 
Lords of Trade, and Albany Con- 
vention, i, 129 
Lorenzo the Magnificent, age of, 

xxvii, 389-90 
Lorimer, Miss, Inscription to, vi, 

579 
Lorraine, Cardinal of, Cellini on, 

xxxi, 295 note, 296, 310, 311; in 

Faustus, xix, 224-5 
Lorraine, Francois de, at Boulogne, 

xxxviii, 18 
Los Angeles (in 1859), xxiii, 408 
Losses, and crosses, lessons from, 

vi, 7Z\ Epictetus on, ii, 120 (11), 

126 (27); Smith on fear of, x, 

_ 1 14-15 

Lost Leader, The, xlii, 11 09 
Lost Mistress, The, xlii, mi 
Lost Youth, My, xlii, 1343-5 
Lot, Jesus on, xliv, 406 (28-9) ; 
Jesus on wife of, 406 (32) ; Mo- 



hammed on, xlv, 917, 1007; wife 
of, XV, 113-14 

Lothair, son of Louis Debonnaire, 
xxxix, 85-6 

Lothario, and Anselmo, xiv, 323-63, 
368-73 

Lothario, gay, reference to, xix, 108 

Lotos-Eaters, in Egypt, xxxiii, 45; 
Ulysses and the, xxii, 122 

Lotos-Eaters, The, xlii, 1026-31; 
editor's remarks on, 1, 19 

Lotteries, Smith on, x, 113-14; 
Woolman on, i, 253 

Lotto, Pier Maria di, xxxi, 84 note 

Lotus-Eaters (see Lotos-Eaters) 

Loudness, as source of the sublime, 
xxiv, 72 

Loudoun, Lord, administration of, i, 
161-2; attack on Louisburg, 160; 
death of, vi, 315 note; indecision 
of, i, 159-61; in proprietary quar- 
rels, 158 

Louis, of Bavaria, son of Debon- 
naire; xxxix, 86 

Louis le Begue, xxxix, 86 

Louis, the Debonnaire, Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 84-6 

Louis, son of Charles the Simple, 
xxxix, 87 

Louis, Saint, wife of, xx, 176 note 
14 

Louis XI, barber of, xxxix, 374; 
Henry VII and, 80-1 ; leaden god 
of, 100; mercenaries of, xxxvi, 49; 
postal service established by, ix, 
388 note; secrecy of, iii, 72^ 

Louis XII, Macaulay on, xxvii, 407; 
Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 9, 13-15, 25 

Louis XIII, Richelieu and, xxiv, 
349 

Louis XIV, Burke on reign of, xxiv, 
258; Dryden on, xiii, 57; on 
duties of sovereign, xxxiv, 222; 
Emerson on, v, 405 ; English dis- 
like of, xxxiv, 87; literature un- 
der, xxxix, 452; Mazarin and, 
xxiv, 349; Scarron and, xxxix, 
368-9; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 154 

Louis XVI, Burke on, xxiv, 213-16, 
219-23, 230-2, 280, 284, 295; as 
king under the Constitution, 348- 
51; on October Sixth, 219-23; 
place of execution of, xxxix, 377-8 

Louis, Don, in Don Quixote, xiv, 
453-7, 465-70 

Louisiana, Cession of, xliii, 267-72 

Louse, To a, vi, 198-9 

Louvain, Lipsius on, xxviii, 46-7 

Louviers, town of, xxxv, 15 

Louvois, and Louis, xiv, xxiv, 349 

Love, Alcibiades on, xii, 113 notes; 
among angels, iv, 262;^ Beaumont 
on, xlvii, 662-3; beginnings of 
conjugal and paternal, xxxiv, 
206; Blake on, xli, 605, 606; 
Brome on, xl, 378; Browningi 



GENERAL INDEX 



299 



E. B., on, xli, 953-4, 955, 958, 
961, 966, 967-8; Browning, Robert 
on, xlii, 1 143, 1 1 54 ; Browning, Rob- 
ert, on fraternal, xviii, 380; Burke 
on, xxiv, 27y 38, 39; Burns on, 
vi, 144, 189, 213, 507; business 
and, xl, 319; Byron on, xli, 820; 
Campbell on, 801-2; "can tame 
the wildest," xyii, 41; comfort in 
strength of, xli, 641; Confucius 
on, xliv, 9 (3), 13 (1-7), 17 (18), 
21 (20, 21, 28), 22 (6), 24 (29), 
30 (28), 38-9, 41 i22)y 45 (19), 
46 (2), 47 (5, 7, 8), 48 (17), 50 
(30), 53 (8, 9), 55 (34, 35), 60 
(6, 8) ; Corneille on causes and 
effects of, xlviii, 62-3; a cureless 
sorrow, xl, 253; death and, iii, 
10; xlii, 1076; Hobbes's defini- 
tion of, xxxiv, 354; desire con- 
trasted with, xxiv, 7y\ Donne on, 
xl, 321; echoes of, xli, 843; Emer- 
son on blindness of, v, 311; 
Envy compared with, iii, 23, 27; 
Euripides on, viii, 297, 306, 310- 
ii» 314, 340 J excited by theatre, 
xlviii, II (11); fear and, xxxvi, 
57-9; xlvi, 143; friendship and, 
ix, 42; xxxii, 77-8; Goethe on, 
xix, 62, 127, 133-4; 287, 379; 
Greek epigram on, v, 317; Hume 
on, xxxvii, 342; inspired by 
virtue, ix, 18; is love forever, 
xlii, 1013; jealousy and, xl, 293; 
Jonson on, 302-4; Kant on practi- 
cal, xxxii, 330; Kempis on, vii, 
257 (4), 273-5; Longfellow on, 
xlii, 1335-6; Marcus Aurelius on 
the universal, ii, 284 (21.); 
mathematically just, v, 102; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 261, 269; Milton on 
misfortunes of, 317; Milton on 
wedded, 176; of misanthropes, ii, 
184 {22)', Moore on, xxviii, 396; 
More on, xxxvi, 224; music and, 
xli, 491; the panacea, v, 58-60; 
Pascal on decay of, xlviii, 50 
(123); Pascal on passion of, 417- 
27; Paul, St., on, xlv, 519 (1-13), 
526 (14); Penn on, i, 347 (82-3), 
383-4 (545-56) ; physical cause of, 
XXIV, 125-6; physical effects of, 
xxxviii, 131; pity and, xl, 403; 
Poe on,^ xxviii, 403, 404; poets 
of, xxvii, 364-5; Raleigh on, xl, 
208;^ refined by sense of beauty, 
xxxii, 310; remedy of all blunders, 
V, 293; Scott on, xli, 761, y6q', 
Shakespeare on, xl, 268, 287 
134), 289; xlvi, 116, 144, 210; 
Shelley on, xli, 848, 873; "short 
word that says much," xviii, 386- 
7; Sidney on, xxvii, 37; Sopho- 
cles on, viii, 267-8; in state of 
nature, xxxiv, 195-8; Stevenson 
on, xxviii, 294; Stoic definition ' 



of, xxxii, 80; Swinburne on, xlii, 
1256-7; Tennyson on, loii, 1060, 
1068; Tennyson on faith in, 1006- 
7; Thomson on, 1196; time and, 
xivi, 177; Tzu-hsia on, xliv, 66 
(6); unlawful, punished in Hell, 
XX, 22-5; unrequited, impossibility 
of, V, 123; Walton on, xv, 330; 
Webster on, xlvii, 761; Words- 
worth on, xli, 68 1,. 682; in young 
men, xiv, 216; Yu-tzu on roots 
of, xliv, 5 (2) 
Love, Essay on, Bacon*s, iii, 28-9. 
Love, by Coleridge, xli, 721-3 
Love, by Herbert, xl, 351 
Love, Ai,i. for, xli, 809-10 
Love, Dirge for, by Sidney, xl, 

214-15 
Love, Dirge of, by Shakespeare, xl, 

274-5 
Love, The Flight of, xli, 874 
Love, Give Ah, to, xlii, 1295-6 
Love, Give Me More, xl, 362 
Love, Summons to, xl, 339-40 
Love for Love, vi, 469 
Love Gregor: a ballad, xl, 65-9 
Love in Her Eyes Sits Playing, 

xl, 412 
Love in the Guise of Friendship, 

vi, 310 
Love in the Valley, xlii, 1186-92 
Love Lies A-Bleeding, xlvii, 6^7- 

718 
Love Looked for Hell, How, xlii, 

1479-82 
Love Not Me, xl, 334 
Love Thou Thy Land, xlii, 1033-5 
Love Will Find Out the Way, 

xl, 388 
Love-Begotten Daughter, To a, 

vi, 59-60 
Love-gain, town of, xv, 106 
Love-lust, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 1 01 -2 
Love-Potions, Webster on, xlvii, 

756-7 
Loo^e-saint, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 285 
Love-Sweetness, xlii, 1227 
Love-the-flesh, Mrs., in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 190 
Love's Deity, xl, 317-18 
Love's Farewell, xl, 2^2 
Love's Omnipresence, xl, 322 
Love's Perjuries, xl, 272 
Love's Philosophy, xli, 854 
Lovejoy, Emerson on, v, 134 
Lovelace, Richard, poems by, xl, 

364-6 
Loveliness of Love, The, xli, 938-9 
Lovell, in Shoemaker's Holiday, 

xlvii, 449 
Lovell, Lord, in New Way to Pay 
Old Debts, xlvii, master of All- 
worth, 828: Overreach's plan to 
win, Zi7t 850, 858-9; with All- 



100 



GENERAL INDEX 



worth on way to Overreach's, 851- 
4; Overreach on, 856-7; arrival 
at Overreach's, 859-60; with 
Margaret, 860-2; 867; with Lady 
AUworth at Overreach's, 863, 
864; departure, 867; discharges 
Allworth, 869; with Overreach at 
Allworth's, 869-73; with Lady 
Allworth, 873-6; reconciliation 
with Lady Allworth, 885-7; with 
Wellborn, 888; in final scene, 
893» 895-6, 897, 898-9 
Lovely Lass of Inverness, vi, 521 
Lovely Polly Stewart^ vi, 438 
Lovely Young Jessie, vi, 484 
Lover, The Constant, xl, 363 
Lover and His Lass, xl, 269 
Lover's Appeal, xl, 195-6 
Lover's Infiniteness, xl, 316-17 
Lover's Lullaby, A, xl, 198 
Lover's Morning Salute to His 

Mistress, vi, 537 
Lover's Resolution, The, xl, 341-2 
Lovesight, by Rossetti, xlii, 1225 
Lovewit, in The Alchemist, xlvii, 

615-23, 629-35 
Loving in Truth, xl, 216 
Low Archipelago, Darwin on, xxix, 

42s 
Lowell, James Russell, Abraham 
Lincoln, xxviii, 441-63; De- 
mocracy, 464-85; life and works, 
440; poems by, xlii, 1447-69 
Loxias, Apollo called, viii, 94, 113, 

116 
Loyal, Mr., in Tartuffe, xxvi, 2^^-^ 
Lubbock, Sir John, on linking 
species, xi, 352; on sexual 
characters, 167; on variability in 
Coccus, 60 
Lucagnolo, xxxi, 35, 37-9> 40, 43-4 
Lucagus, death of, xiii, 346-7 
Lucan, Browne on, iii, 308 (44) ; 
in Dante's Hell, xx, 19; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 92; Nero and, 
xviii, 16; Shelley on, xxvii, 354, 
366; xli, 890; Sidney on, xxvii, 

14 
Lucanus, Domitius, ix, 343-4 
Lucas, Prosper, on inheritance, xi, 

30; on resemblances, 329-30 
LucASTA, To, Going Beyond the 

Seas, xl, 366 
LucASTA, To, ON Going to the 

Wars, xl, 364-5 
Lucceius, Cicero on, ix, 91, 156; 

letter to, 104 
Lucchesini, Girolamo, xxxi, 436 

note 
Lucetius, death of, xiii, 316 
Luchdonn, the satirist, xlix, 225 
Lucia, Dante on, xx, 11 note 6 

182, 423 
Lucia, in The Betrothed (see Mon- 

della, Lucia) 
Lucia, Sainte, xxxi, 389 note 



Lucian, Alexander the prophet and, 
xxxvii, 406; atheism of, iii, 45; 
dispute of S. and T. in, 329; 
on love of lies, 7 
Lucianus, in Hamlet, xlvi, 145, 146 
Lucifer, in Dante's Hell, xx, 143-4; 
in Faustus, xix, 220, 222', Mar- 
lowe on fall of, 208; pictured in 
Purgatory, xx, 193; Satan called, 
iv, 305; called the worm, xx, 26 
note I 
Lucilius, and Brutus, xii, 390 
Lucinda, in Don Quixote, xiv, 213- 

18, 253-61, 278-9, 374-84 
Lucius of Cyrene, xliv, 457 (i) 
Luck, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 374; Gud- 
run on the trust in, xlix, 377; 
shallow men believe in, v, 294 
LucKNOw, The Pipes at, xlii, 1437-9 
Lucre Hill, in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, III, 288 
Lucretia, in Dante's Limbo, xx, 20; 

reference to, 308 
Lucretius, Cicero on, ix, 114; Clau- 
dian and, xxxix, 450; Montaigne 
on, xxxii, 92, 93; on pleasure of 
truth, iii, 8; on religion, 14; xxiv, 
144; XXV, 31; in Rome, iii, 205; 
Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 137; Shel- 
ley on, xxvii, 361; Sidney on, 
14; Swift on, 114; on terror 
caused by wonders of nature, xxiV, 
61; Wordsworth on, v, 337-8 
Lucullus, Cicero and, xii, 252; 
Clodius and, 250; faction of, iii, 
130; Pompey and, 114 
Lucy: by Wordsworth, xli, 685-8 
Lucy Ashton's Song, xli, 765-6 
Lucy, Countess of Bedford, xI, 

304-5 
Ludlow, Hugo on, xxxix, 400 
Luisens, Duke de, and Edw. Her- 
bert, XV, 378 
Luke, St., Dante on, xx, 268 and 
note 14; vocation and nationality 
of, xliv, 356 
Luke, Gospel According to, xliv, 
355-426; Pascal on, xlviii, 194 
(578) 
Luke Dosa, iron crown of, xli, 544 
Lullaby, by Shakespeare, xl, 270-1 
Lullaby, a Lover's, xl, 198-9 
Lullaby, a Sweet, xl, 200-1 
Lullaby, Our Blessed Lady's, xl, 

261-5 
Lully, Raymond, iii, 209 note; xlvii, 

561 note 
Lumpkin, Tony, in She Stoops to 
Conquer, son of Mrs. Hardcastle, 
204; his pranks, xviii, 204-5; Miss 
Neville and, 208-9; goes to ale- 
house, 205-6; at the ale-house, 
209-11; with Mario w and Hast- 
ings, 2 II -1 4; with Constance Nev- 
ille, 228, 229-30; with his mother. 



GENERAL INDEX 



501 



230; with Hastings, 231-2; steals 
Miss Neville's jewels for her, 234- 
5; 236-8; with Miss Neville in the 
plot, 250-1 ; and the letter from 
Hastings, 251-4; denounced by all, 
254; takes leave, 256; as driver 
in elopement plot, 260-4; finally 
releases Miss Neville, 268-9 

Luned, in Arthurian legends, xxxii, 
173 note 

Lungs, developed from swimbladder, 
xi, 196; Fabricius on the, xxxviii, 
68; Harvey on, 146, 147; heart 
and, relations of, 68, 73-6, 93, 94, 
95-9> ioS» 138-9; passage of blood 
through, 99-102, 104-5 

Lupercalia, feast of, xii, 324-5 

Luperci, Virgil on the, xiii, 294 

Lupercus, letter to, ix, 364 

Lupus, Nymphidius, Pliny on, ix, 
389-90 

Luscinius, Gams, and ^milius, ix, 
22 

Lust, Dante on, xx, 51; in Dante's 
Hell, 22-5 ; defined by Hobbes, 
xxxiv, 354; of the eyes, vii, 197; 
Hindu Krishna on, xlv, 872; love 
and, i, 347 (82-3); xl, 430; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 58-^; Pascal on three 
kinds of, xlviii, 155 (458), 156 
(460-1); Shakespeare on, xl, 288 
(135); xlvi, 109; Webster on, 
xlvii, 748 

Lutatius, Catulus, xii, 242; Caesar 
and, 278-9 

Lute, To His, William Drum- 
mond's, xl, ZZ7 

Luther, Martin, Address to German 
Nobility, xxxvi, 2^6-352; Browne 
on, iii, 266 (2) ; Carlyle on, xxv, 
338; Christian Liberty, xxxvi, 
362-97; Emerson on, v, 70; hymn 
by, xlv, 570-1; letter to Arch- 
bishop Albert, xxxvi, 261; letter 
to Leo X, ZSZ'^'2'\ letter to Nicho- 
las Amsdorfl^ 274-5 \ life and works, 
260; Ninety-Five Theses, 265-73; 
Taine on table-talk of, xxxix, 460; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 85; on wise 
men, v, 243; Wyclif and, iii, 234 

Luxuries, defined by Smith, x, 541- 
2; Emerson on, v, 54-5; Milton 
on, iv, 6=;, dTy taxes on, Penn on, 
1, 344, 409-10; taxes on, Smith 
on, X, 542-5, 559-64; taxes on, 
when best paid, 499 (3) 
Luxury, Burns on, vi, 147, 2()2\ de- 
fined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 354; of 
doing good, xii, 533; Epictetns 
on, ii, 17s (168); generation and, 
X, 83; Goldsmith on, xH, 529, 531; 
Jonson on, xl, 303; Penn on, i, 
341, 346; Pliny on, ix, 226; Wool- 
man on, i, 204-6, 303-4 
Luynes, Duke de, xlviii, 352 note 2 
Lycas, in the -^Eneid, xiii, 345-6 



Lyceian King, Apollo called, viii, 

203, 224 
Lychnocaia, religious festival, xxxiii, 

34 
Lycidas, Milton's, iv, 74-79; Ruskin 

on, xxviii, 108-13 
Lycis, reference to, viii, 419-20 
Lycomedes, and Neoptolemus, ix, 

34; at Salamis, xii, 19 
Lycon, accuser of Socrates, ii, 10 
Lycopodium, xxx, 109 note 
Lycurgus, Aristides and, xii, 81; 

Bacon on, iii, 136; learning of, 

204; young law-breaker and, ii, 

150 (88) 
Lycurgus, and Hypsipile, xx, 254 

note 
Lycus, in the ^neid, xiii, 83, 316 
Lydgate, Dryden on, xxxix, 1 70 
Lydia, the Christian, xliv, 466 (14- 

Lyell, Sir Charles, on colonies of 
Barrande, xi, 365; Darwin to, 
xxix, 7; editor's remarks on pa- 
pers of, 1, 45; on geology, xi, 109; 
geology, works on, 335-6; life and 
works of, xxxviii, 404; on means 
of dispersal, xi, 403; on origin 
of species and geological record, 
363; Progress of Geology, xxxviii, 
405-18; on struggle for life, xi, 
Tj\ on subsidence of Pacific, 
xxix, 494 note; on succession of 
species, xi, 364; Uniformity of 
Change, xxxviii, 419-40 

Lygians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 
120 

Lying, Locke on, xxxvii, 121-2, 126 

Lying-in Hospitals, Lee on, xxxviii, 
261 

Lyly, John, Cupid and Campaspe, 
xl, 212; Spring's Welcome, 213; 
Jonson on, 309 

Lyncaeus, eyes of, v, 177 

Lynceus, In the ^neid, xiii, 323 

Lynceus, and Hypermnaestra, viii, 
186 note 

Lyngi, King, xlix, 297, 298, 299, 
311. 312 

Lyon, Richard, and Wat Tyler, xxxv, 

71 

Lyric Poetry, Hugo on age of, 
xxxix, 356-7, 370, 371, Zl^; Mil- 
ton on, V, 181; Sidney on, xxvii, 
30-1; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 313 

Lysander, admiral of Sparta, xii, 
147, 149; Alcibiades and, 150; 
Cyrus and, ix, 68; on Spartan 
respect for age, 69 

Lysanias of Sphettus, ii, 20 

Lysanias, tetrarch of Abilene, xliv, 

365 (i) 
Lysias, Claudius, xliv, 484 (26), 486 

Lysias, the orator, ix, 214 note i 
Lysicles, and Aspasia, xii, 62 



302 



GENERAL INDEX 



Lysimachus, son of Aristides, xii, 

io8 
Lysippus, and Alexander, ix, 107 
Lyso, Cicero on, ix, 160 
Lyte, Henry Francis, Abide with 

Me, xlv, 580 
Lytton, Edward Earl, The Last 

Wish, xlii, 1165 
Mab, fairy, Milton on, iv, 33 
Mabinogion, The, xxxii, 145 note, 

151-73 
Mabon, son of Modron, xxxii, 156-9 
M'Adam, To Mr., vi, 197-8 
Macariens, law of the, xxxvi, 173 
Macario, Father, miracle of, xxi, 

51-2 
Macarius, the monk, xx, 380 note 4 
Macaroni, Pagolo, xxxi, 317, 321 
Macaulay, G. C, Editor of Frois- 
sart, XXXV, i; translator of He- 
rodotus, xxxiii, I 
Macaulay, Thomas Babington, Emer- 
son on, V, 457-8; life and works, 
xxvii, 380; On MachiavelIvI, 381- 
421; Mill on, XXV, 54, 84, 103-4, 
105; poems by, xli, 940-3; in 
Union Debating Society, xxv, 54 
Macaulay, Zachary, xxVii, 380 
Macbeth, Tragedy of, xlvi, 303-75; 
Hugo on witches in, xxxix, 366; 
Lamb on staging of, xxvii, 324-5, 
327-8, 330, 331 
Macbeth, general of Duncan, xlvi, 
306, 307; made Thane of Cawdor, 
308; with the witches, 309-11; 
with king's messengers, 311-13; 
received by king, 313-14; hatred 
of Malcolm, Prince of Cumber- 
land, 314-15; letter to wife, 315; 
Lady Macbeth on, 315; return 
home, 316-17; hesitates to kill 
Duncan, 318-19; urged on by 
Lady Macbeth, 319-21; with 
Banquo before murder, 321-2; 
vision of dagger, 322-3; goes to 
murder, 323; with Lady Macbeth 
after murder, 324-6; with Mac- 
duff and Lennox, 327-8; on dis- 
covery of murder, 328, 329-30; 
chosen king, 332; with Banquo, 
333-4; plots to kill Banquo, 334- 
7; tells Lady Macbeth, 337-9; at 
the banquet, 340-4; Lennox on, 
346; with witches, shown appari- 
tions, 349-51; learns Macduff's 
fliglit, 352; Macduff on, 357; in 
Dunsinane Castle, 366-8, 369; 
hears death of wife, 369-70; learns 
forest moving, 370; fights with 
young Siward, 371-2; and Mac- 
duff, 372-3; death, 374 
Macbeth, Lady, letter from husband, 
xlvi, 315; plans to kill king, 316; 
receives^ husband, 316-17; wel- 
comes king to castle, 318; urges 
husband to murder, 319-21; Dun- 



can's gift to, 322; during murder, 
323; with husband after murder, 
324-6; on discovery of murder, 
328-9, 330; with Banquo, 333; 
with husband, concerning Ban- 
quo's murder, 337-9; at banquet, 
340, 341, 342-4; walks in sleep, 
363-5; doctor on, 367; her death, 
369-70, 375; Ruskin on, xxviii, 143 

Maccabaeus, Judas, Dante on, xx, 
363 note 3; Milton on, iv, 392; 
one of nine worthies, xxxix, 21 

Maccabees, Pascal on the, xlviii, 213 
(630) 

MacCarthy, D. F., translator of 
Stabat Mater, xlv, 565 

Maccecht, son of Snade, xlix, 218, 
219, 225, 226, 235-7, 238, 259, 260, 
261-2, 263 

M'CuUoch, Mill on, xxv, 65, 67, 84 

McCuLLocH vs. Maryland, xliii, 
222-40 

MacDonald, George, poems by, xlii, 
1163-5 

M'Dougal, Sir George, xxv, 429-30 

Macduff, in Macbeth, xlvi, 317; 
with the porter, 326-7; discovers 
king's murder, 327-30; with Ross, 
332; his flight to England, 346-7, 
352; at English court, with Mal- 
colm, 355-9; with Ross, learns 
death of family, 360-3; in war on 
Macbeth, 365, 369, 371; fight with 
Macbeth, 372-3; his victory, 374 

Macduff, Lady, xlvi, 352-5 

Macedo, Largius, and his slaves, ix, 

, 251-3 

Macedonia, Raleigh on, xxxix, 74, 
119 

Macer, Baebius, letters to, ix, 242, 

305 
Macer, Calpurnius, ix, 402, 412 
Macer, Licinius, death of, xii, 232 
M'Gill, Dr. William, vi, 357 note, 

372 
Machabeus (see Maccabseus) 
Macherone, Cesare, xxxi, 114, 115 
Machiavel, in Egmont, xix, 254-60, 

284-7 
Machiavelli, Art of War, xxvii, 
412-13; Bacon on, iii, 103; Bel- 
phegor, xxvii, 436; Csesar Borgia 
and, 408-9; on Christianity, iii, 
35; Clizia of, xxvii, 405; on de- 
mocracy, xxv, 384; deserts of, 
xxvii, 420-1 ; Discourses on Livy, 
414-15; efforts to relieve Italy, 
409-12; life and works of, xxxvi, 
3-4; Mandragola of, xxvii, 401-5; 
obloquy following death, 420; 
odiousness of, 381-3; political 
correspondence of, 406-7; The 
Prince, xxxvi, 5-90; The Prince, 
Macaulay on, xxvii, 381-3, 413, 
41=;; representative of Italian Re- 
naissance, 1, 23; his times, xxvii* 



GENERAL INDEX 



303 



384-401; works of, Macaulay on, 
401-6, 417-20 

Machiavei^li, Essay on, xxvii, 381- 
421 

Machinery, advantages of, x, 235; 
fixed capital, 228; division of la- 
bor and, 14-15; Emerson on, v, 
86, 415; power and velocity in, 
XXX, 190-3; in woollen manufac- 
tures, X, 214-15; work of, XXX, 
184-5 

Mackenzie, Dr., Note to, vi, 224-5 

M'Kenzie, Mr., of Applecross, vi, 

215 
Mackinlay, Rev. James, Burns on, 

vi, 171, 174, 254, 372 
McKinley, William, Cuba and, xliii, 

467 note; Hawaii and, 464 note 
Mackintosh, Sir James, Emerson on, 

V, 148, 457 , , 
Maclean of Lochbuy, xlii, 1474-9 
M'Lehose, Mrs., Burns and, vi, 309, 

311 
M'Leod, Isabella, verses on, vi, 315 
M'Leod, John, On the Death of, 

vi, 286-7 
M'Math, John, Epistle to, vi, 11 o- 

13 

M*Murdo, John, Lines on, vi, 496 
M'Murdo, John, Lines to, vi, 348 
MacNeil, Hector, poems by, xli, 

590-2 
Magon, Antoine de, xxxi, 304 note 2 
Macpherson, James, Goldsmith on, 

xli, 520; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 

344-6 
M'Pherson*s Farewell, vi, 313 
Macrauchenia Patachonica, xxix, 

186-7 
Macready, and Browning, xviii, 356 
Macrinius, letters to, ix, 226, 313 
Macrinus, Emperor, Machiavelli on, 

XXX vi, 70 
Macrinus, Minutius, letter to, ix, 

342; Pliny on, 210 
Macrobeus, on dreams, xl, 43; on 

Virgil, xiii, 1^-15 
Macrocosmus, sign of, xix, 23-4 
Macronians, circumcision among, 

xxxiii, 51 
Macureguarai, town of, xxxiii, 367, 

376 
Mad Maid's Song, xl, 344 
Madasinia, Queen, xiv, 219, 222-3 
Madeira, flora of, xi, 118; species 

of, 434, 443 ^ 
Madeline, and Porphyro, xli, 908-17 
Madison, James, papers for Fed- 
eralist, xliii, 212 note 
Madness, cause of, xxiv, 37; Hobbes 

on,^ xxxiv, 367-72; Pascal on, 

xlviii, 135 (414); Shakespeare on, 

xlvi, 119, 122 
Madrigal, by Drummond, xl, 335 
Madrigal, by Shakespeare, xl, 273 
Maecenas, Antony and, xviii, 23; 

Dry den on, 16; Pliny and, xliii. 



30; Plutarch on, xii, 361; Virgil 

and, xiii, 3; xxxix, 171 
Mael, and Lancelot, xxxii, 171 
Maelius, Spurius, death of, ix, 66 
Maenads, Bacchus and the, viii, 204; 

Pentheus and the, 116; son of 

Dryas and, 273 
Maeon, death of, xiii, 338 
Maeonides, Homer called, iv, 139 
Masvius, Dry den on, xiii, 13; Shel- 
ley on, xxvii, 375-6 
Magaeus, and Alcibiades, xii, 150-1 
Magalotti, Gregorio, xxxi, 128 note 
Magdalena, Drake at, xxxiii, 154-5 
Magdalene, Mary, xliv, 378 (37-50), 

379 (2), 424 (10); John Donne 

on, XV, 382; Kempis on, vii, 256 

(i) 
Magdalene, For the, xl, 337-8 
Magdolos, battle of, xxxiii, 82 
Magellan, first to circumnavigate 

globe, xxxiii, 126; at Port St. 

Julian, 213 
Magellan Clouds, described, xxiii, 30 
Magellan, Straits of, Darwin on, 

xxix, 247; Pretty on, xxxiii, 215- 

16 
Magic, Browne on, iii, 295 (31); 

Faust on, xix, 22; Faustus on, 

202 ^ 
Magicians, in Dante's Hell, xx, 86 
Magistrates, expenses of, x, 486-7; 

marriage of,^ iii, 22; Vane on 

duties of, xliii, 130-1 
Magna Charta, Burke on, xxiv, 179- 

80; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 91; Win- 

throp on, xliii, 102 
Magna, Instauratio (see Instau- 

ratio Magna) 
Magnane, M. de, xxxviii, 25 
Magnanimity, friendship requires, 

V, 119; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 354, 

380; Marcus Aurelius on term, 

li, 281 (8) ; Ruskin on, xxviii, 

131 

Magnetism, Faraday on, xxx, 66-9; 
illustrated, 24; produced by elec- 
tricity, 84-7, 215 

Magneto-electrical Machines, xxxr 

Magneto-electricity, discovered by 

Faraday, xxx, 3 
Magnificence, a source of the sub- 
lime, xxiv, 68-9 
Magnitude, in ^ architecture, xxiv, 

67 \ Pliny on, ix, 214-15; sublimity 

of, xxiv, 63-4, II 5-16 
Magnusson, Eirikr, xlix, 265 
Magus, death of, xiii, 344-5 
Magyars, Freeman on the, xxviii, 

278; Turks and, 235-7 
Maha Bharata, The, remarks on, 

xlv, 800 
Maha-Brahma, xlv, 628, 632, 633 
Maha-Maya, mother of Buddha, xlr* 

620-4 
Mahatmas, xlv, 836. S39 



304 



GENERAL INDEX 



Mahew, Mr., among the Indians, 

xliii, 147, 149 
Mahmud, Omar Khayyam on, xli, 

980 
Mahomet (see Mohammed) 
Maia, daughter of Atlas, xiii, ztj', 

Jove and, xl, 246; mother of 

Mercury, xx, 383 note 13 
Maiander, River, Herodotus on, 

xxxiii, 9 
Maid of Athens, xli, 815-16 
Maimonides, Moses, on prophets, 

xlviii, 218 (2) 
Mairet, and Corneille, xxxix, 379 
Maisar, game of, xlv, 1008 note 3 
Majority, Burke on tyrannv of the, 

xxiv, 273; Lincoln on /ule of the, 

xliii, 340; Lowell on government 

by, xxviii, 478; Mill on tyranny 

of the, XXV, 206; Pascal on rule 

of, xlviii, 108 (301), 310 (878) 
Mai, son of Telband, xlix, 239-40 
Malacoda, in Dante's Hell, xx, 89 
Malaspina, Alagia, xx, 226 note 
Malaspina, Archbishop of Genoa, 

XXXI, 47 note i 
Malaspina, Conrad, in Purgatory, 

XX, 180 
Malaspina, Marcello, and Dante, 

XX, 22(} note 
Malaspina, Morello, Dante and, xx, 

104 note 5, 180 note 10 
Malatesti, Count, in Duchess of 

Malfi, xlvii, 755, 767-8, 797, 809, 

812, 813, 815, 816 
Malavolti, Catalano de*, xx, 98 

note 4 ^ 
Malay Archipelago, Darwin on, xi, 

, 352-3. 437 

Malays, superstition of the, xxix, 

483 
Malaysia, Drake in, xxxiii, 227-33 
Malchus, and St. Peter, xlviii, 267 

* (744) 

Malcolm, in Macbeth, with Dun- 
can in camp, xlvi, 306, 307; re- 
ports death of Cawdor, 313; made 
Prince of Cumberland, 314; after 
father's murder, 329, 330-1; sus- 
pected of murder, 332; at English 
court, 346; with Macduff, 355-9; 
and Ross, 360, 361; comforts 
Macduff, 362-3; in war on Mac- 
beth, 365, 368, 371, 372; with 
Sivv^ard, 374; hailed as king, 374-5 

Maldiva Archipelago, Datwin on, 
xxix, 503-4 

Maldonado, town, Darwin on, xxix, 
50-1 

Maldonado, Lopez, Cervantes on, 

, xiv, 57 

Malebolge, in Hell, xx, 75 

Malebranche, Nicholas, Berkeley on, 
xxxyii, 249; on God, 365 note; 
xxxiv, 105; Hume on, xxxvii, 
307; Montesquieu on, xxxii, 123; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 71 



Malfi, Duchess of, in Duchess of 
Malfi, Antonio on, xlvii, 'J2T\ in 
presence chamber scene, 727-8; 
Bosola hired to watch, 729-30; 
with ^ brothers, advised against 
marriage, 730-2; scene with An- 
tonio, 733-7; Bosola on condition 
of, 739. 743; with Bosola, 741-2; 
plans to hide her condition, 742- 
3; birth of son, 745, 748; her un- 
chastity believed by brothers, 751- 
4; with Ferdinand after interval, 
75S-6; plan to force confession, 
757; with Antonio in chamber, 
757-9; with Ferdinand, 759-62; 
with Bosola, 762-3; covers flight 
of Antonio, 762-5; confesses mar- 
riage to Bosola, 766; plans for 
flight, 766-7; betrayed by Bosola, 
767, 769; banished from Ancona, 
770-1; with Antonio near Loretto, 
TJ2\ letter from brother, 773; 
parting from Antonio, 774-5; ar- 
rested by Bosola, 775-6; in im- 
prisonment, 776-81; with Cariola, 
781-2; with madmen, 783-5; with 
Bosola as old man, 785-7; death, 
788, 792 

Malice, Burns on, vi, iii; Emerson 
on limits of, v, 135; Martial on, 
xlviii, 19 (41); More on, xxxvi, 
134; Woolman on, i, 285 

Malice, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, IOT-2 

Malignity, Bacon on, iii. 2>y^ 

Malin, Admiral, at Gravelines, xix, 
250 

Mailon, Col., at Gettysburg, xliii, 
409, 411 

^Ially's Meek, Mally's Sweet, vi, 
581 

Malory, Sir Thomas, The Holy 
Grail, xxxv, 109-226; life and 
book, 108; Prologue to King 
Arthur of, xxxix, 21-5 

Malprimis, in Song of Roland, xlix, 
128, 141 

Malquiant, son of Malcus, xlix, 154 

Malseron, in Song of Roland, xlix, 

^ 144 . . ^ 

Malt, Harrison on making of, xxxv, 

297 
Malta, Coleridge on government of, 

V, 333; heat of, xxxvii, lo-ii; 

Knights of, Mill on, xxv, 11 
Malthus, debt of Darwin to, xi, 7; 

Emerson on, v, 259, 408; Mill 

on, xxv, 71 
Maluco Islands, Drake in, xxxiii, 

227-30 
Malunkyaputta, xlv, 662-7 
Mambrino s Helmet, xiv, 82, 175-7, 

472-4 
Mammals, first ^ appearance of, xi, 

356; in oceanic islands, 436-7 
Mammary Glands, development of 

the, xi, 244-5 



GENERAL INDEX 



305 



Mammon, Burns on followers of, vl, 
9J» 344; Jesus on, xliv, 403 (13); 
in Paradise Lost, iv, 107, 1 16-18 

Mammon, Sir Epicure, in The 
Alchemist, Subtle on, xlvii, 539- 
40; visit to Subtle's, 540-59; plot 
against, 559-60; his return, 584, 
585-6; with Dol, 587-91, 602-4; 
with Subtle, 604-5; hears loss of 
Subtle*s works, 605-6; returns 
with Surly, 619-20; with officers, 
629-32 

Man, Of, by Hobbes, xxxiv, 317- 

434 
Man, animals and, difference be- 
tween, xxxiv, 178-80; antiquity 
of, xi, 35; xxxviii, 407-9» 426, 
427; Augustine, St., on, vii, 59, 
85-6; Bacon on, and God, iii, 
46; Bildad on, xliv, 112 (4-6); 
Browne on, iii, 299, 340-1; Burns 
on, vi, 35, 243, 261-2, 301, 325, 
358, 543; Byron on, xviii, 412; 
Channing on study of, xxviii, 343- 
4; Confucius on, xliv, 20 (17); 
David on, 153 (4-8), 330 (3-4); 
defined by Plato, xlviii, 432; 
Descartes on creation of, xxxiv, 
38-9; Emerson on, v, 26, 74-7, 
i39» 2^8, 275, 278, 284-5, 290, 
308; Epictetus on, ii, 120 (9), 
122 (16), 137 (60-1), 162 (125), 
166; "folly's microcosm," xix, 54; 
Franklin on, i, 76; God's ways to, 
iv, 435-6; Goethe on state of , xix, 
17; Homer on littleness of, xxii, 
258-9; Kant on, xxxii, 359-62; 
Kempis on, vii, 316-17; littleness 
of, xliv, 134 (3-41), 137 (1-30). 
139 (1-14), 140 (i-ii); Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 246 (3), 257 (7), 
.^60 (27), 262 (34), 279 (6), 292 
(14). 305 (32); Minerva on, v, 
227; Mohammed on creation of, 
xlv, 889, 895, 900, 901, 910, 947; 
natural state of, xxxiv, 168, 171- 
200, 208-9, 402-6; Pascal on state 
of, xlviii, 25-31, 47 (hi), 50 (125- 
7), 52-3, 57 (140), 63 (165), 77 
(i99)» 78 (205-8), 122 (358), 130 
(389-90), 131 (397), 132 (398- 

404), 133 (409), 134 (4ii-23)» 
139 (427), 147, 148, 150, 151, 163 
(486), 168 (510-11), 195 (584), 
223 (660), 402-3, 444; Pascal on 
study of, 58-9; Penn on, i, 339- 
4i.». 359 (220-2); Poe's tragedy of, 
xlii, 1292; proper study of him- 
self, i, 80, 94; iii, 28, 276, 279; 
"proposeth, Glod disposeth," vii, 
232; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 262-3; 
Rousseau on early, 171; Schiller 
on person and condition of, xxxii, 
252-5; Schiller on what consti- 
tutes, 224-5; self-torture is the 
lot of , xix, 31; Shakespeare on, 
xlvi, 125, 165, 256-7; a social 



being, 11, 128 (34), 136 (56), 162 
(123), 230 (16), 246 (5), 247 
(13), 252 (55), 267 (59), 270 (9), 
291 (8); ix, 38; xxiv, 40; xxv, 
341-3; Socrates on mediocrity of, 
ii, 83; supreme in strangeness, 
viii, 253-4; the temple of God, 
xlv, 505 (16-17), 534 (16); Ten- 
nyson on, xlii, 1058-9; thought 
requisite to, xlviii, 119 (339), 120 
346-8); Timaeus on, v, 182; 
transitoriness of, xliv, 262-3, 276 
(15-16); twofold naiTire of, xxxvi, 
363; universal and particular, v, 
6; Zophar on, xliv, 90 (12) 
Man and Satyr, fable of, xvii, 33 
Man and Serpent, fable of, xvii, 

II 
Man and Two Wives, fable of, xvii, 
29 

Man and the Wood, fable of, xvii, 

21 
Man and Wooden God, fable of, 

xvii, 27 
Man, Boy, and Donkey, fable of, 

xvii, 36 
Man, Essay on, by Pope, xl, 417-51 
Man the Reformer, Emerson's, v, 
,,45-61 

Man was Made to Mourn, vi, 64-7 
Man's a Man for a* That, vi, 546; 

Arnold on, xxviii, 86 
Manardi, Arrigo, xx, 204 note 16 
Manasseh, Pascal on, xlviii, 241 
Manchet, a kind of bread, xxxv, 

295 
Mandeville, Bernard, Addison and, 

xxvii, 190; on pity, xxxiv, 193 
Mandeville, Sir John, on headless 

men, xxxiii, 372 
Mandioca, Darwin on, xxix, 33 
Mandrake, superstition of the, xlvii, 

751 note 2 
Maneros, song of, xxxiii, 41 
Manetho, on Egypt, xxxviii, 407 
Manetti, Latino (jiovenale de, xxxi, 

152 note, 186-7, 192 
Manfred: A Dramatic Poem, xviii, 

403-44; remarks on, 40^' 
Manfred, in Manfred, with the 
spirits, xviii, 403-9; spell pro- 
nounced on, 409-11; on the moun- 
tain, 411-14; saved by chamois- 
hunter, 414; in hunter's cottage, 
415-17; with Witch, relates his 
life, 418-22; determines to learn 
what death is, 422-3; in Hall of 
Arimanes, 427-8; calls up Astarte, 
428-31; in castle, his calmness, 
431-2; with Abbot of St. Maurice, 
432-6; address to the sun, 436-7; 
Herman on, 437; Astarte and, 
438; on beauties of night and the 
Coliseum, 439-40; summoned by 
spirits, 441-3; death, 444 
Manfredi, Alberigo de*, xx, 141 and 
note 4 



306 



GENERAL INDEX 



Manfredi, King of Naples, Dante 

on, XX, 158-9 and note 3 
Manfredi, Tribaldello de', xx, 136 

note 13 
Mangiadore, Pietro, xx, 339 note 

33 
Mangona, Alberto da, xx, 168 note 6 
Manhood, Channing on true, xxviii, 

343; Emerson on, v, 19-20, 87; 

Lowell on, xxviii, ^45 1-2; xlii, 

1466; Pascal on, xlviii, 18 
Manichaeans, vii, 3; Augustine, St., 

on the, 37-44» 66-72, 77-9, 138-9; 

Mill on, XXV, 31;^ Nebridius's 

argument against, vii, 104 
Manilius, case of, xii, 232-3 
Mankind, uniformity of, xxxvii, 

37V81; unity of, v, 19-20 
Manlius, Capitolinus, Virgil on, 

xiii, 294 
Manlius, Marcus, in Catiline's con- 
spiracy, xii, 236, 2^7 \ defeat of, 

xxxiii, 117 
Manlius, Titus, Corneille on, xxvi, 

118 
Manna, Browne on, iii, 284-s 
Mannellini, Bernardino, xxxi, 364- 

, 5. 394 . 

Manners, in authors, criticism of, 
xxvii, 22,2'y Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
384-90; Hume on, of different 
ages, xxxvii, 376; Locke on, 50-2, 
76-8, 128-35 

Manners, Essay on, by Emerson, 
v, 2oy-2y 

Manners, Treatise on Good, by 
Swift, xxvii, 1 06-1 1 

Mannus, god of the Germans, xxxiii, 

, 95 . ^ ... 

Manoa, city of, xxxni, 313, 328, 

330, Z2^-2y 332 
Manoa, in Samson Agonistes, iv, 

427-8, 430-1, 433-4, 455-6, 457, 

458-63 ^ 
Mansfeld, Count, xxxviii, 53-4 
Mansfield, Lord, Pope on, xxvii, 

287; on the press, v, 465 
Mantius, son of Melampus, xxii, 

214 
Manto, Dante on, xx, 84-5; in 

Limbo, 239 note 9 
Mantrap, Mrs., in She Stoops to 

Conquer, xviii, 241, 267 
Mantua, contest over Duchy of, 

xxi, 81, 454-6, 486-92; crigin of, 

XX, 85-6; Virgil on, xiii, 333 
Mantua, Marquis of, in Don 

Quixote, xiv, 46, 81 
Manual Labor, Emerson on, v, 49- 

53; Locke on, xxxvii, 185-90 
Manuel, in Manfred, xviii, 437-9 
Manufacturers, interests of, x, 219- 

20 
Manufactures, agriculture and, x, 

11-12, 230-1, 319-22; in agri- 
cultural system, 450-6, 459-63 J 



capital used in, 304, 306, 307; 

cornrnerce compared with, 323; 

division of labor in, 9-10; foreign 

competition keenest in, 355; 

favored by laws, 134-6; materials 

of, importation and exportation 

of, 424-42 ; military spirit and, 

iii, 81; xxvii, 391-2; monopolies 

in, X, 358; necessity of, 302, 465-6; 

prices of, 54, 211-16; protection 

of new, 353-4 
Manzoni, Alessandro, I Promessi 

Sposi, xxi; life and works, 3-6 
Mara, the god, xlv, 632-6, 745 
Maranon, river, xxxiii, 328 note, 

330 
Marat, Burke on, xxiv, 442 
Marathon, battle of, xii, 85; Byron 

on, xii, 833 
Marble, composition of, xxx, 159 

note; crystallization of, 251; ex- 
periments with, 12-14 
Marbois, Francis Barbe, xliii, 268 
Marcela, and Chrysostom, xiv, 92-8, 

1 12-16 
Marcellinus, Pliny to, ix, 286 
Marcellus, _^ brother-in-law of Oc- 

tavius, xii, 263 
Marcellus, Caius, first husband of 

Octavia, xii, 358, 403 
Marcellus, Marcus Claudius (d. 208 

B. C). Virgil on, xiii, 240-1 
Marcellus, Marcus Claudius (d. 46 

B. C), Antony and, xii, 337; 

Caesar and, ix, 170; xii, 299-300; 

Catiline and, 237; death of, ix, 

73; Milo and, 100 
Marcellus, Marcus Claudius (d. 23 

B. 0, son of Octavia, xii, 403; 

Virgil on, xiii, 33, 241-2 
Marcellus, in Hami^et, xlvi, 88-92, 

97-100, 104, 106-7, iio-ii 
March, month of Creation, xl, 44; 

twenty-fifth of, xv, 408 
March^ Written in, xii, 619-20 
March, George, Earl of, his raid 

into England, xxxv, 83-4; at Ot- 

terburn, 91, 93; Ralph Percy and, 

lOI 

Marcia, wife of Cato, in Cato, xxvii, 

205-7; in Dante's Limbo, xx, 20, 

149 
Marcii, house of the, xii, 152 
Marcius, and Cicero, xii, 238, 258 
Marcius, Caius (see Coriolanus) 
Marco, and Sejanus, iii, 98-9 
Marco Polo on China, x, 75 
Marco of the Serbs, xxxii, 164 note 

12 
Marcomanians, Tacitus on the, 

xxxiii, 119-20 
Marcone, the goldsmith, xxxi, 15, 

22 
Marcus Aurelius (see Aurelius) 
Mardion, the eunuch, xii, 382 
Mardonius, general of Xerxes, kU, 



GENERAL INDEX 



307 



9, 90, 9i> 94. 95» 97» 98; death 
of, 100; at Plataea, 21 
Mare, Sai^utation To an Auld, vi, 
155-8 

Margano, Pietro, xxxi, 103 note i 
Margaret, in Faust, first meeting 
with Faust, xix, 107; wonders 
who he is, no; in chamber, finds 
casket, 1 13-14; grieves for loss 
of casket, 116; finds second 
casket, 1 16-17; meets Mephis- 
topheles at Martha's, 119-25; with 
Faust in garden, 128-34; in sum- 
mer-house, 135-6; song of, 142-3; 
with Faust, on his religion, 143- 
5; dislike of Mephistopheles, 146; 
plans meeting with Faust, 147-8; 
with Bessy at the well, 149-51; 
prayer of, 151-2; Valentine on, 
153; with Valentine, 156-8; in 
the cathedral, 159-61; vision of, 
seen by Faust, 175; imprisoned 
and doomed to death, 184; in the 
dungeon, with Faust, 187-95; re- 
marks on story of, 5 

Margaret, The Affliction of, xli, 
660-2 

Margaret d'Alengon, xxxi, 348 
note 2 

Margaret of Anjou, Raleigh on, 
xxxix, ^y, 78 

Margaret of Austria, xxxi, 164 
note 6, 230 note 

Margaret of Burgundy, xxxix, 5, 6- 
7, 9; Warbeck and, xxxiv, 103 

Margaret of Parma, xix, 246; 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 91 

Margaret of Parma, in Egmont, 
regent of Netherlands, xix, 250-1; 
on the iconoclasts, 254; with 
Machiavel, on state of Nether- 
lands, 254-6; suspects Egmont and 
Orange, 257-9; Egmont and 
Orange on, 278-9, 290-1; deter- 
mines to abdicate, 284-7; her de- 
parture, 293 

Margaris, in Song of Roland, xlix, 
130-1, 143, 149 

Margaritae Sorort, xlii, 1257-8 

Marginal Notes, Cervantes on, xiv, 
8-1 r 

Margites, of Homer, iii, 210; xii, 
216 note 

Marguerite, To, xlii, 1174 

Marguerite de Valois, xxxi, 295 
note, 313 

Maria, in School for Scandal, in 
love with Charles Surface, xviii, 
113, 114, 123; at Lady Sneer- 
well's, 115-21, 129; with JoFieph 
Surface, 729, 133-4; Sir Peter 
and, 142; toasted by Charles, 
148; reconciled to Charles, 191-3 

Maria, the ^ widow, in I Promessi 
Sposi, xxi, 409, 500 

Mariane, in Tartuffe, and Mme. 



Pernelle, xxvi, 190; in love with 
Valere, 198, 218; marriage put 
off by father, 205-7; with her 
father, ordered to marry Tartuffe, 
207-17; with Dorine, 2ij-22\ with 
Valere, 222-:i2\ protests against 
marriage with Tartuffe, 253-4; in 
final scene, 281, 283; promised to 
Valere, 284 

Marids, a kind of genii, xvi, 9 note 

Marie Antoinette, Burke on, xxiv, 
223-4; on October Sixth, 219-20^ 

Marine Currents, Lyell on, xxxviii, 
423, 424 

Marine Species, the simultaneous 
changes in, xi, 374 

Mariners of England ye, Thomas 
Campbell's, xli, 797-8 

Marini, Dryden on, xiii, 62 

Mario, in England, v, 430 

Marion's Men, Song of, xlii, 
1266-8 

Maritornes, the Asturian wench, 
xiv, 128, 129-33, 142-3; on knight- 
ly tales, 318; plot of, against 
Quixote, 457-61 

Marius, Caius, Burke on confisca- 
tions of, xxiv, 263-4; Caesar and, 
xii, 274, 27y, 278;__death of, xxvii, 
24; Dryden on, xiii, 16 

Marius, M., letter to, ix, iii 

Marjaneh, in story of Ali-Baba, 
xvi, 448-9, 45 1» 454-6, 458-60 

Mark, John surnamed, xliv, 456 
(12), 457 (25), 465 (37-9) 

Mark, St., Pascal on 13th chapter 
of, xlviii, 364-5 

Mark Yonder Pomp of Costly 
Fashion, vi, 570-1 

Market, extent of, limits division 

of labor, x, 24 
Market Price, defined, x, 59; as 
determined by demand and sup- 
ply* 59-61 ; effect of fluctuations 
on rent, wages, and profits, 62-3; 
natural price compared with, 61-6 
Markets, in Utopia, xxxvi, 195-6 
Markland, Leif Ericsson's, xliii, 9 
Marl, Harrison on, xxxv, 324-5 
Marlborough, Duke of, Addison on, 
xxvii, 194; Bolingbroke on, xxxiv, 
100 
Marlborough Road, The Old, 

xxviii, 414-15 
Marliniere, Riccant de la, xxvi, 334-8 
Marloff, Madame, in Minna von 

Barnhelm, xxvi, 293-5 
Marlow, Sir Charles, in She Stoops 

to Conquer, xviii, 256-9 264-9 
Marlow, Young, in She Stoops to 
Conquer, selected as husband for 
Kate Hardcastle, xviii, 206-7: Miss 
Neville on, 208; at the ale-house, 
211-14; arrival at Hardcastle's, 
216-18; with Mr. Hardcastle, 218- 
22, 22^\ meets Miss Hardcastle, 



308 



GENERAL INDEX 



225-7; discussed by Kate and her 
father, 232-4, 242-3; with Kate as 
the barmaid, 239-42; with Miss 
Neville's jewels, 244-5; with Hard- 
castle and his servants, 246-7; 
ordered to leave house, 247-8; 
learns inn is Mr. Hardcastle's, 
248-9; parting with Kate, 249-50; 
denounces Tony and Hastings, 
254-5; protests against loving 
Kate, 257-8; love scene with Kate, 
265-6; learns who she is, 267; 
united to Kate, 269 

Marlowe, Christopher, Edward the 
Second, xlvi, 3-84; Doctor Faus- 
Tus, xix, 199-243; influence on 
Goethe, 4; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 290- 
i; Tonson on, xl, 309; life and 
works, xix, 198; The Passionate 
Shepherd, xl, 259-60 

Marmagne, Seigneur de, xxxi, 293 
note 

Marmontel, Mill on Memoirs of, 
XXV, 93 

Maron, son of Euanthes, xxii, 125 

Marque and Reprisal, Letters of, 
xliii, 171, 172, 197 (11), 198 (10) 

Marquis, meaning of, xxxiv, 383 

Marrall, in New Way to Pay Old 
Debts, xlvii, 830-1 ; scene with 
Overreach, 835-8; with Wellborn, 
838-40; with Wellborn at All- 
worth's, 841-4, 845-6; with Well- 
born after dinner, 847-8; reports 
to Overreach, 849-51; at Over- 
reach's, 854, 859, 863, 864, 865, 
866; at Allworth's, 869-70; with 
Wellborn on way to Lady All- 
worth's, 878, 880-1; with Over- 
reach, 888, 890, 891, 892-3; in 
final scene, 896-7 

Marriage, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
24, 48; Browne on, iii, 337-8; 
Cervantes on, xiv, 335; dispensa- 
tions, xxxvi, 325; of divorced per- 
sons, Jesus on, xliv, 404 (18); 
from economic standpoint, x, 74-5, 
83-4; Epictetus on, ii, 160 (116); 
equality in, viii, 187 and note; 
Euripides on, 314; among Ger- 
mans, xxxiii, 105; Goethe on, xix, 
349; Locke on, xxxvii, 194-5; 
Luther on, xxxvi, 350; Massinger 
on, xlvii, 875; Mill on, contracts 
of, XXV, 312-13; Milton on, iv, 176, 
317; xxviii, 190; Mohammed on, 
xlv, 981, 983-4, 994; Moliere on, 
without love, xxvi, 212; Mon- 
taigne on, ^ xxxii, 78 ; among 
Moravians, i, 150; in New At- 
lantis, iii, 177-9; Pascal on, xlviii, 
129 (385). 347; Paul, St., on, 
xlv, 509, 510 (27-8, 33-40); 
Penn on, i, 346-7, 348-49 (92-105); 
Pliny on, for wealth, ix, 210-11; 



of priests, Calvin on, xxxix, 40; 
of priests, Luther on, xxxvi, 317- 
21; prostitution and, iii, 177-8; 
Rousseau on effect of indissoluble, 
xxxiv, 198; Ruskin on, xxviii, 
149; sanctity of, -^schylus on, 
viii, 123; sanctity of, Emerson on, 
V, 256; Shakespeare on, xlvi, 137; 
Shakespeare on second, 144; state 
control of, xxv, 318; Stevenson 
on, xxviii, 293-4; owift on, xxvii, 
97; in Utopia, xxxvi, 221-3; Wal- 
ton on, XV, 331; Webster's An- 
tonio on, xlvii, 733, 734 
Marriage and Single Life, Bacon 

on, iii, 22-3 
Marriott, John, hymn by, xlv, 586 
Mars, as Grerman god, xxxiii, 100 

(see also Ares) 
Mars, the planet, xlii, 13 17-18; 

Dante's fifth heaven, xx, 347 
Marsh, George, on the "Alert," xxiii, 

209-12, 263-4; (in 1859), 404 
Marshall, John, Opinion in Case op 

McCuLLOCH, xliii, 222-40 
Marshall, Mr., of Leeds, xxv, 79 
Marshes of Glynn, xlii, 1470-3 
Marsians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 96 
Marsignians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

120 
Marsil, King, in Song of Roland, 
xlix, 97-100, 103-5, 111-19, i49-5i> 
156, 157, 159, 168, 194-5, 196 
Marsyas, Apollo and, xx, 287 
Martel, Charles, king of Hungary, 

XX, 317-21 
Martha, and Jesus, xliv, 388-9 
Martha, in Faust, with Margaret, 
xix, 1 1 7-18; learns husband's 
death, 119-25; with Mephistopheles 
in garden, 128-9, 131-2, 134; with 
Valentine, 156-8 
Martha, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

286 
Marthesia, Queen of the Amazons, 

xxxiii, 338 
Martial, Elphinstone*s translation of, 
vi, 277; Montaigne on, xxxii, 94; 
Pascal on epigrams of, xlviii, 19; 
Pliny on, ix, 258-9; on the ugly 
man, v, 316 
Martigues, M. de, at Metz, xxxviii, 

26; at Hesdin, 37, 38, 39-42 
Martin IV, in Purgatory, xx, 244 

and note 2 
Martin V, Milton on, iii, 206 
Martin, Sir, xx, 344 note 24 
Martin, Theodore, translator of 

Schiller, xxvi, 367 
Martineau, Harriet, Emerson and, v, 

Martinez, Juan, xxxiii, 330, 331-2 
Martini, Luca, xxxi, 180 note; Capi- 

tolo addressed to, 263 
Martins, and Sophocles, v, 125-6 



GENERAL INDEX 



309 



Martyrs, Bacon on, iii, 145; Browne 
on, 291 (25, 26) ; Bunyan on 
Christian, xv, 268; Emerson on, 
V, 104; Goethe on, of truth, xix, 
29; Lowell on, xlii, 1450; Pascal 
on the, xlviii, 161 (481), 300 

(844) 
Marullus, the tribune, Caesar and, 

xii, 325 
Marut, the fallen angel, xvi, 62 

note 
Marvel, Mount, xv, 294 
Marvell, Andrew, poems by, xl, 
379-88 

Marvellous, human love of the, 
xxxvii, 402-4 

Mary, mother of Jesus, xliv, 358- 
60, 362 (5-7)» 363 (19), 364 (48- 
51), 380 (19-21), 424 (10), 430 
(14); at the cross (see Stabat 
Mater); Dante on, xx, 186, 227 y 
339; in Dante's Paradise, 386-7, 
419-20, 424; Lullaby for, xl, 261- 
5; Luther on, xxxvi, 388; Milton 
on, iv, 193, 366, 369, 377-8; Mo- 
hammed on, xlv, 920-1, 964 note, 
965-6, 996, 1008, 1016, 1021; Pas- 
cal on virginity of, xlviii, 81 
(222-3), 267 (742) 

Mary, mother of John, xliv, 456 
(12) 

Mary, sister of Martha, xliv, 388-9 

Mary of Brabant, and Brosse, xx, 
168 note 7 

Mary, Queen of Scots, Burns on, 
vi, 396 

Mary, Queen of Scots, Lament 
OF, vi, 420-1 

Mary Tudor, Queen, Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 90 

Mary, the Coptic girl, xlv, 1006 
note I 

Mary, To, in Heaven, vi, 386-7 

Mary Hamilton, a ballad, xl, 118- 
20 

Mary Magdalene (see Magdalene) 

Mary Morison, vi, 32 

Mary Unwin, To, xli, 549-51 

Maryland, Quakers in, i, 288 

Maryland vs. McCulloch, xliii, 
222-40 

Marzio, in The Cenci, xviii, 317, 
325-6, 326-7, 328, 331, 338-43 

Masaccio, frescoes of, xxxi, 24 
note I 

Mascheroni, Sassol, xx, 135 note 5 

Masinissa, old age of, ix, 58 

Masistius, Plutarch on, xii, 94-5 

Mask and Fox, fable of, xvii, 18 

Mason, Sir Josiah, xxviii, 218, 219- 
20 

Masonic Song, vi, 254 

Masons, Burns on, vi, 39 

Masorah, Pascal on the, xlviii, 213 

^ (630) 

Masques, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

lOO-I 



Mass (in physics), measured by in- 
ertia, XXX, 315-16 

Mass (in Roman Church), Calvin 
on, xxxix, 40; Luther on, xxxvi, 
330-1; Luther on, for the dead, 
322-3; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 313 

Massa, Boebius, impeachment of, ix, 

, 331 ^ 

Massachusetts, Folger on persecu- 
tions in, i, 9; Winthrop on gov- 
ernment of, xliii, 90-112 
Massachusetts Body of Liberties, 

xliii, 70-89 
Massachusetts to Virginia, xlii, 

1419-24 
Massena, Napoleon on, v, 41 
Massicus, ally of JEneas, xiii, 332 
Massinger, Philip, life and works, 
xlvii, 818; New Way to Pay Old 
Debts, 819-99 
Massive Ones, in Faust, xix, 183 
Masson, David, Bagehot on Life of 

Milton by, xxviii, 17 1-4 
Masters, Epictetus's advice to, ii, 
178 (180); Penn's counsel to, i, 
357; single men best, iii, 22 
Master's Eye, fable of the, xvii, 23 
Mastic, Columbus on, xliii, 27 
Mastication, Locke on, xxxvii, 17 
Mastiff, Harrison on the, xxxv, 371- 
3, 374; cross between bear and, 

375 . 

Masurius, Epictetus on, ii, 169 (144) 

Match, A, xlii, 1254 

Matches, story of the, xvii, 366-9 

Materialism, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 
265,^ 286-7, 295-8; Channing on, 
xxviii, 332; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
257-61, 265-6; Schiller on, xxxii, 
235-6; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 106-9 

Materials, as circulating capital, x, 
229; of manufacture, importation, 
and exportation of, 424-42; rent 
of land used to produce, 171-85; 
value of, compared with food, 
186-8 

Mathematical Mind, Pascal on the, 
xlviii, 7-10 

Mathematicians, Franklin on, i, 60 

Mathematics, ancient, xxviii, 227; 
Bacon on study of, iii, 129; Berke- 
ley on the, xxxvii, 297; Burke 
on, xxiv, 21, 78; Descartes on 
study of, xxxiv, 8, 9, 18-19; 
Hobbes on, 377; Hume on the, 
xxxvii, 324, 329; Mill on, com- 
pared with logic, XXV, 18; Mill on 
indisputableness of, 239; Milton 
on study of, iii, 252, 253; moral 
sciences compared with, xxxvii, 
354-5; Newton on, xxxix, 157-8; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 9, 10 

Mather, Cotton, church history of, 
i, 9; Essays to do Good, 14 

Matilda, in Dante's Purgatory, xx, 
261 note; Ruskin on, xxviii, 167 

Matius, Caius, xii, 317 note 



910 



GEXERAL IXORX 



MnireTis^ ia Eowakd li* xhru 7^ 

T*^ Tt^ ^^* 
Mat^^r^ Bcfkeky on eststence o(» 
XX v^. ??(a-3, .2o6<>^» Jtt^HO^ »5^ 
<6S-ji» «74-n *?9^i» 

xxx:x. lo^; Hune oa 

XX vv:. 444 note; 

5$7: Home 

'^rlrane on 

XXTUi, 

.^tioii* 



Mattcfs of F^ct, Hum oa» xxxvli« 
A 319*43> 349^ 3SOk 419i» 441* 

4; Kalon on* mil*. 105 
liittlwv, ttie aimstfew Jdrr. aj^ (is)* 

^30 (13); mAo— et on, xhrm, 198 

MidttlKv, in PiUGKiM*^ Pioguess. 
xv» «3^i. «J5-?» «3*^ «53. *S5. 

lbitlfeie«s« FMcisA mbskiiulit, xxix, 

lf«KliMff» Ike disdpK i£t» 430 

Ifatnanaa^ Tteitns oa tke» TT?mu 

112 
Macckuxk* Tbx Bslus op* in, 6> 
Mj^rcmuxx Ladt» Ths; ti* 6t 

liMdL Q«en» uid tke Bope^ xxxr, 

llaner, Haas aof der, in Wn^xut 
Tux* xxri, 40S. 4^ 4^^ 4i«k 

4" 
MnnidBc* WiDinii, i» €0 
IfiuBl. tke wtKoU XT, 25i-« 
Ckftuoer's* ad, «y 
» axMM of least 

Hanrice, F. D., Carlyle and, xxr, 
33i7m LowlQQ CU^ S3; Mill 

4, IOO>I 

of SanMBqr, M ac l i i a T cfli 
xxviL ^i 

js^ Junios^ix, 19S note: 

letter lo^ 209; ^Plmj' on* 199 
ManritniE^ Darwin on* xxix, $09* 

la 
Hanrina* Scr, xxxi. 156 note 4 
MannSk nbaams* xsc 340 note 37 
llaxnii* d tfinftd l^r Sant. xxxn, 331 

note a» SSI note 7 



xsriu 407; MiccunY^i oiu xxx'v^ 

MaximiQa* Antonia. ix. jrr 
Maximmos* MachiaTelH on> xxxru 

^70> Tl 

liaxiins^ MacauUy on ceneral. xxvii. 

41$ 
MaxuBiia^ Falmis (se« Fabhxs) 
Maxnmis* frcednan of Tn^aa, ix» 

ltaxiBnis*rC(HUiis» lettt^rs to. ix. X19. 

*7«» 396* 311, ^jo, 349* 3?- 
Maxianis^ Qs» and his son. ix» i^s 
MaxuBoSk tcacber of AureliiK, li* 

^9^ (iS>*i99 ^ 

MxxwKLU JoHK^ Episns TO, ri. 
^H. Sir John, at Otterbom, 

Lord. xL loi 

■AT MooN« The Yocxg, xli. 84J 
Mat MoavixG. Soxg ox, it. 40 
Mat, Ths Csakmixg Moxth op, 

vi. «9 
Mat, Thy Moax. ti. 4m 
Maja« mother of Buddha, xlv, 600 
Majer, JnUos Robert, on law of 

conscTTation, xacx, 1S3 
Miy fl ow er , Lowell on the. xlii. 1451 
IfATTtovxa CoMFACT, The, xliit. 6j 
Mazarin. Loois XIV and, xxiv. 349; 

motto of, xxTui* 44S; Pascal oa» 

xhriii, ai (^6) 
Mazzaro^ idir, 136 note 13 
Mazzini, C^nseppe, Btkox Axn 

Goethk, J U Lxi i, 399-419: editorial 

remarks on paper of, 1, 56; life 

of, xnfii, 3S^ 
Mead, Harrison on, xxxv. 301 
Meade, General, senes Gettysbarf^. 

3dm, 351; ia battle ol Gettrs- 

boriE. «3. 3S4, 3x5. 35^7- 36i--». 

3^7. 3«o» 3S5, 3S7. 389V»> 393. 

m* ^?5» 4i5*i7» 4». ^*-** 4*4; 

Haskol on. 35o» 381* 3&1 
Meals, Ijodtt on* xxxni, 18; of 

children, 19 
Meanness, Cbnfocias on, xIit, 3$ 

(35), a6 (11); punishme nt of, t, 

»7 
Means, and ends, Emerson on, t, 

94: ram on, i, 365 (310-19) 
Meases, cowpoat and, xxxriii. 226 

note; Jenner on. 172; smaO-pox 

and, ai3 
Measure^ lEmerson on loTe of, t, 

ai8 ^^^ ^ 

Measnres. Fnglish and mctnc system 

O^ XXX. 36^ 

Meat, Aufustin e, St., oa eatinf^ of » 
Tn, 193; Darwin on eating of, 
xxix._ia9-3o; Locke on eatinc of, 
xxxvn, i^i7> i9» Mohammed oa 
eatinsr of* ^dr, 1008. 1018; price 
of, ^onA on, X, 157-8* i6o>i. 191. 



OEMEMAL 

tk0t tUme ^ jOr, f^ 



i» ' A^ m^J^ 



m 







312 



GENERAL INDEX 



Meeting of the Waters, xli, 838-9 
Meg o' the Mill, vi, 485-6 
Megaenetus, pupil of -(Eschylus, viii, 

448 
Megaera, Dante on, xx, 38; Milton 

on, iv, 308 
Megapenthes, son of Menelaus, xxii, 

48, 210, 211 
Megara, in Homer's Hades, xxii, 

159 

Megara, city of, xii, 68-9 

Megatheroid Animals, habits of, 
xxix, 95-7 

Megra, in Philaster, xlvii, 640-1; 
on Pharamond, 646, 647; with 
Pharamond, 659-61 ; before Phara- 
mond's house, 663-4; caught with 
Pharamond, 665-8; accuses Are- 
thusa, 668-9; at the hunt, 684-5, 
686, 690; denounces Arethusa, 
713; arrested, 716; freed, 718 

Meinrad, of Hohenzollern, xxvi, 386 
note 7 

Melampus, Dionysus and, xxxiii, 29- 
30; Iphicles and, xxii, 159 note; 
story of, 214 

Melancholy, Christianity and, xxxix, 
361; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 367; in 
music, xli, 490; pleasures of, iv, 
35-9 

Mel,anchoi.y, by Fletcher, xl, 330- 

331 ^ 

Melancholy, Ode to, xli, po6 

Melancthon, on poetry, xxvii, 43 

Melanopus, Callistratus and, xii, 207 

Melantnius, in the Odyssey, xxii, 
243-5, 248, 288-9, 299-300, 310-11, 
312, 320 

Melantho, daughter of Dolius, xxii, 
263-4, 269 

Melchthal, Arnold von, in Wil- 
helm Tell, at house of Fiirst, 
xxvi, 385-6; hears father's blind- 
ing, 388-90; enters league with 
Fiirst and Stauffacher, 391-4; at 
the rendezvous, 400-14; with Tell 
at Altdorf, 427, 430, 431; at 
death of Attinghausen, 445; with 
Rudenz, 448-50; reports progress 
of revolt, 461-2; hears death of 
Emperor, 463-7 

Melcombe, Lord, Shorten Sail, xl, 
475-6 

Meleager, son of Althea, viii, 96; 
Dante on, xx, 249 and note 2 

Melendez, Pedro, governor of 
Florida, xxxiii, 265 

Melesigenes, Homer called, iv, 406 

Meletus, accuser of Socrates, ii, 5, 
10-15, 21, 23, 26 

Melias, Sir, knighting of, xxxv, 126- 
7; adventures of, 127-9; promises 
to follow Galahad, 130 

Meliboeus, Milton on, iv, 68; Sid- 
ney on, xxvii, 28 

Melissus, of Samos, xii, 64, 65; 
Dante on, xx, 344 note 20; The- 



mistocles and, xii, 6; on the 

world, xxxix, 109-10 
Melius, Henry, xxiii, 408, 419-20 
Mellyagraunce, and Launcelot, xlii, 

1236-7 
Melmoth, William, translator of 

Pliny, ix, 191 
Melo, John de, Don Quixote on, 

xiv, 515 
Melvin, Andrew, xv, 386, 423 
Memmius, C, Gabinius ana, ix, 120 
Memnon, reference to, xiii, 92 
Memorabilia, xlii, 1124-5 
Memorial Verses, by Arnold, xlii, 

1181-3 

Memories, Homer on, of griefs, xxii, 
218; Moore on, xli, 837; of pleas- 
ures, xvii, 45; Tennyson on, xlii, 
1013 

Memorizing, Confucius on, xliv, 43 
(5); Locke on, xxxvii, 160-3; 01 
poetry, Eliot on, 1, 10 

Memory, Augustine, St., on the, vii, 
173-82; Calderon on persistency 
of, xxxiv, 326; Hobbes on, 326; 
Hume on the, xxxvii, 316, 341-2; 
Locke on exercising the, 161-3; 
in old age, ix, 53-4; Pascal on, 
xlyiii, 41 (95), 125 (369); Ra- 
leigh on, xxxix, loi; reliance on 
the, V, 70; verse and, xxvii, 34-5 

Memphis, statues of Amasis at, 
xxxiii, 80; embankments at, 49; 
temple of Isis at, 89; founded by 
Min, 49; camp of Tyrians in, 54 

Men, Confucius on study of, xliv, 6 
(16), 8 (10); constitute states, 
xli, 593; divine and undivine, 
xlv, 870-2; two kinds of, xlviii, 
174 (534); women and, Ruskin 
on, xxviii, 149-50 

Menage, Abbe, on Le Bailleul, v, 
317 . 

Menalippus, reference to, xx, 137,^ 

Menander, on his comedy, xxxii, 
64; on friendship, 86 

Menas, the pirate, xii, 358, 359 

Mendesians, sacred animals of, 
xxxiii, 25, 28 

Mendicant Ideal, of Buddhism, xlv, 
764-6 

Mendicants, The Royal, xvi, 71- 
106 

Mendoza, city of, xxix, 350 

Menelaus, ^schylus on, viii, 20, 27" 
9; Burke on grief of, xxiv, 3^; 
in Egypt, Herodotus on, xxxiii, 
58; in Egypt, Virgil on, xiii, 370; 
in Odyssey, xxii, 16-17, 37-8, 41- 
2, 48-64, 209-12; Pliny on, ix, 218 
note 10; in Trojan horse, xiii, 112 

Menenius, the senator, xxxix, 223 

Menes (see Min) 

Menexenus, with Socrates, ii, 47 

Meng Chih-fan, xliv, 20 (13) 

Meng Ching, xliv, 26 (4) note 3 

Meng Chuang. xliv, 6j (18) 



GENERAL INDEX 



313 



Meng Kung-Ch'o, xHv, 47 (12) 
Meng Wu, Confucius and, xliv, 7 

(6), 15 (7) 
Meng Yi, disciple of Confucius, xliv, 

, 7(5) 

Menico, in The Betrothed, xxi, 

105, 127-8, 130, 134-S, 191 
Menippus, Plutarch on, xii, 53 
Menjot, M., Pascal on, xlviii, 348 
Mennonists, on slavery, i, 224 
Menoekeus, son of (see Creon) 
Menoetes, in the -<Eneid, xiii, 187-8, 

413 

Menon, and Phidias, xii, 70 

Mental Discourse, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
330-4; ends of, 359-6o 

Mental Powers, of animals, xi, 234-5 

Mental Sciences, Helmholtz on, 
xxx, 1 81 -2 

Menteith, in Macbeth, xlvi, 365-6, 
368 

Mentes, form assumed by Pallas, 
xxii, 12, 14 

Mentor, in Odyssey, xxii, 28, 240 

Mephibosheth, and David, xii, 498; 
xliii, no 

Mephistopheles, in Goethe's Faust, 
undertakes Faust's downfall, xix, 
17-20; appears to Faust in shape 
of dog, 47-8; in Faust's study, 
appears as scholar, 49-59; as youth 
of high degree, 60; compact with 
Faust, 61-71; with the student, 71- 
8; starts with Faust, 78-9; at the 
wine-cellar, 83-93; ^^ Witches' 
Kitchen, 95-107; promises Mar- 
garet to Faust, 107-10; in Mar- 
garet's chamber, 1 10-13; learns 
casket given to church, 11 5-1 7; 
visit to Martha's, 119-25; tells 
Faust of appointment, 125-8; with 
Martha in garden, 128-9, 131-2, 
134-5; with Faust in cavern, 137- 
9; urges return to Margaret, 139- 
42; disliked by Margaret, 146-7; 
taunts Faust, 148-9; before Mar- 
garet's door, 154-5; with Valen- 
tine, 155-6; on Walpurgis-Night, 
161-76; with Faust in the Plain, 
184-6; in Open Country, 186-7; in 
dungeon, takes Faust, 195; Hugo 
on, xxxix, 365, 375 

Mephistophilis, in Marlowe's Faustus, 
conjured by Faustus, xix, 207^9; 
compact with Faustus, 213-17; with 
Faustus, on Heaven, astrology, 
etc., 217-19; with FViustus in Rome, 
223-5; with Robin and Ralph, 228- 
9; with horse-courser, 232-4; re- 
news compact with Faustus, 238 

Mer de Glace, of Chamouni, xxx, 
227-30, 232-3; movement of, 234- 
6, 239 

Mercantile System, effect of, on reve- 
nue of the state, x, 550-1; prin- 
ciple of the, 326-47; producers and 
consumers under, 444'5 



Mercator, work of, in mathematics, 
xxxiv, 128 

Mercenary Soldiers, Bacon on, iii, 
78; Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 47-8; 
More on, 232 

Merchant, Chaucer's, xl, 18-19; the 
natural, v, 193 

Merchant and the Jinni, story of, 
xvi, 17-20 

Merchant and his Wife, story of, 
xvi, 13-14 

Merchantman, duties on a, xxiii, 
16-21 

Merchants, in agricultural system, 
X, 45i-5» .459-63; Bacon on, iii, 
54; Harrison on, xxxv, 236-7; 
interests of, x, 219-20; in war 
(agreement with Mexico), xliii, 324 

Mercurius, the spirit in the battle, 
xvii, 195 

Mercurius Aulicus, royalist paper, 
iii, 219 note 

Mercury, in the ^neid, xiii, 35, 
85, 165-6, 176-7; frauds of, xxxiv, 
381; as German god, xxxiii, 100; 
son of Maia, xiii, 276-7 

Mercury (the metal), supposed 
parent of metals, xlvii, 552-3 

Mercury (the planet), Dante's 
second Heaven, xx, 306-7 

Mercy, Blake on, xii, 605, 606; 
Bunyan on name and practice of, 
XV, 234-5; Cowper on, xii, 549; 
Dryden on, xviii, 82; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 424; Jesus on, xliv, 374 
(36) ; Luther on acts of, xxxvi, 
268; Milton on, iv, 20 (8); in 
princes, xxxvi, 56; Shakespeare 
on, xlvi, 151; Solomon on, xliii, 
100; Mercy, in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 176; neighbor of Chris- 
tiana, 188-9, 190-2; in Slough of 
Dispond, 192-3; admitted at the 
gate, 195; conversation with 
Christiana, 196-7; asks about the 
Dog, 197-8; her innocency, 202; 
at the Interpreter's House, 206; 
why she went on pilgrimage, 211- 
12; on Difficulty Hill, 222', in 
Beautiful Palace, 228; her dream, 
229; her suitor, Mr. Brisk, 233-4; 
in Valley of Humiliation, 246-7; 
in Valley of Death, 249-50; and 
Mr. Honest and, 256; on Mr. 
Fearing, 262 ; married to Matthew, 
269, 2y2'y in Vanity Fair, 286; at 
By-way to Hell, 296; the looking- 
glass and, 296-7 

Meredith, George, Love in the Val- 
ley^ xiii, 1186-92 

Meredith, Hugh, i, 52-3, 60; Frank- 
lin in business with, 55-6, 58-9, 
61, 62-4; goes south, 64 

Merit, contrasted with worthiness, 
xxxiv, 38^; Hobbes on, 412; not 
envied, iii, 25; Pascal on word, 
xlviii, X 70 



314 



GENERAL INDEX 



Merlin, on Arthur, xlii, 1020; con- 
verted by St. Columba, xxxii, 178; 
Keats on, xli, 911; legend of, 
xxxii, 160; Renan on, 176; the 
Round Table and, xxxv, 142-3 
Mermaid Tavern, The, xli, 898 
Mermaid's, Chaucer on, xl, 46-7 
Merman, The Forsaken, xlii, 1168- 

Meroe, Herodotus on city of, xxxni, 

18 
Merriman, Dr., xxxviii, 259-60 
Merry Andrew's Song, vi, 132 
Merry Hae I Been Teethin a 

Heckle, vi, 141 
Merryman, in Faust, xix, 10-14 
Merton, Walter, xxxv, 402 
Mertoun, Earl, in A Blot in the 
'Scutcheon, suitor of Mildred 
Tresham, xviii, 357-8; described 
by retainers, 359; arrival at Tres- 
ham's, 361 ; his love for Mildred, 
362-4; secret visit to Mildred, 369- 
74; discovered, unknown, by 
Gerard, 375-7; under Mildred's 
window the last time, 389-90; 
killed by Tresham, 390-4 
Mesaulius, Homer on, xxii, 205 
Mescidius, Cicero on, ix, 114 
Mesrur, the executioner, xvi, 66 
Messalla, and Cicero, ix, 120; 

Cicero on, 96-7, 184 
Messapus, in the -(Eneid, ^neas 
and, xiii, 412; ally of Turnus, 
267, 2y2, 298, 302, 314, 352, 378, 
380, 414, 418; Aulestes and, 405 
Messiah, Milton on prophecies of 
the, iv, 351, 353-4; Mohammed on 
the, xlv, 997-8, loio, 1 01 6; Pas- 
cal on prophecies of the, xlviii, 
190-2, 205, 206 (616-17), 208-9, 
218, 224 (662), 240 (707) 
Metabus, father of Camilla, xiii, 

380-1 
Metagenes, of Xypete, xii, 51 
Metallurgy, beginnings of, xxxiv, 

210-1 1 
Metals, artificial, in New Atlantis, 
iii, 182; Harrison on source of, 
xxxv, 337-8; as medium of ex- 
change, X, 30-1; prices of, 178-83, 
186, 209-10 
Metamorphic Rocks, xxx, 349 
Metaphors, Bunyan on, xv, 7-8; 
Burke on pleasure from, xxiv, 18; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 364-5; Lowell 
on, xxviii, 471; Pliny on, ix, 
365-7; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 317- 
19 
Metamorphoses, of insects, xi, 478 
Metamorphosis, Browne on, iii, 302, 

305 
Metaphysic of Morals, necessity of 

a, xxxii, 318-21, 338-43 
Metaphysical Reasoning, Franklin 

on, i, 58 



Metaphysicians, Burke on, xxiv, 433 

Metaphysics, Aryan and Semitic, 

xxxix, 444; Bacon's attitude 

toward, iii, 152; Berkeley on, 

xxxvii, 297; Carlyle on, xxv, 355- 

7; Carlyle on German, 369; Chan- 

ning on study of, xxviii, 340; 

Cowley on, xxvii, 69; defined by 

Kant, xxxii, 318; Goethe on, xix, 

74-5; Hume on, xxxvii, 309-15, 

355> 445; Locke on study of, 147- 

8; Milton on study of, iii, 250; 

Rousseau on, xxxiv, 257 

Metelli, names of the, xii, 162 

Metellus, the tribune, xii, 305 

Metellus Quintus, Cicero on, ix, 130; 

free from resentment, xii, 195-6 
Metempsychosis, Browne on, iii, 302 
(37); Lessing on, xxxii, 216- 
17; of opinions, iii, 270; Socrates 
on, ii, 59-63, 74 (see also Trans- 
migration) 
Meteorology, Hobbes on, xxxiv, ZT1\ 
origin of term, xii, 70 note; 
in Utopia, xxxvi, 207 
Metheglin, Welsh drink, xxxv, 301 
Method, in business, i, 372-3 (403); 
Goethe on, xix, 73; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 181 
Methon, observations of, xxxiv, 132 
Methuen, treaty drawn by, x, 408 
Methusalem, Browne on, iii, 288 
Metius, the traitor, xiii, 293 
Meton, the astrologer, xii, 125-6 
Metoposcopy, xlvii, 567 note 11; de- 
fined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 397 
Metras, restored by Cicero, ix, 141-2 
Metre, Shelley on, xxvii, 350; Whit- 
man on, xxxix, 415; Wordsworth 
on, 298, 299-301, 302, 308, 311 
Metric System, Kelvin on the, xxx, 

265 
Metrical Novels, Wordsworth on, 

xxxix, 313 
Metrodorus, xii, 351 
Metropolis, every, a university, 

xxviii, 37, 38-9 
Metz, Pare on expedition against, 

xxxviii, 19; siege of, 24-35 ^ 
Mexican War, cause of, xliii, 309 

note 
Mexico, ancient, iii, 166; Johnson 
on palaces of, xxxix, 236; Ra- 
leigh on conquest of, xxxiii, 341 ; 
seat of Montezume, iv, 333; 
Treaty with U. S., xliii, 309-26 
Meyer, Heinrich, xxxix, 264 note 
Meyer von Sarnen, in Wilhelm 

Tell, xxvi, 400-13 
Meymum, the son of Demdem, xvi, 

85 
Mezentius, ally of Turnus,^ xni, 265, 
2^2% in attack on Trojan town, 
314; in the battle, 350-3; wounded 
by ^neas, 353-4; his death, 356-9; 
Dryden on, 21, 34 



GENERAL INDEX 



315 



Miasma, source of, xxix, 386 

Miaulina, xiv, 148 

Mica, crystallization of, xxx, 30; 
effect on polarized light, 34 

Micaiah, Calvin on, xxxix, 45; Mil- 
ton on, iii, 240 

Micceri, Pagolo, xxxi, 317-18, 319- 
20, Z2^-y, 328, 332 

Mice, bees and, xi, 88; country and 
town, ii, 297 {,22) ; country and 
town, fable of, xvii, 12; Darwin 
on, xxix, 380; in Galapagos Is- 
lands, 400-1; range of, xi, 153-4; 
use of ears of, 22^, 

Michael, Archangel, in Faust, xix, 
16-17; in Paradise Lost, iv, 208, 
2i3-iS» 325-6, 328-9, 331-59, 361 

Michael, the fiddler in Evangeline, 
xlii, 1371, 1395 

Michael: A Pastoral Poem, xli, 
630-42 

Michal, references to, xli, 499, 501 

Michaux, on American trees, xxviii, 
418 

Michelangelo, Andrea del Sarto and, 
xlii, 1135; on Baccio d'Agnolo's 
cupola, xxxi, 430 note 3; on 
beauty, v, 314; Bugiardini and, 
xxxi, 89 note; cartoon on taking 
of Pisa, 24 and note 2; Cellini 
and, 2, 25, 88-9, 400; Cellini on, 
358, 375, 436; Cosimo de* Medici 
and, 400-1, 402; "David" of, 357 
note 3; "David** of, Bandinello 
on, 418-19; "The Fair*' of, xxxix, 
210; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 293; Hugo 
on "Last Judgrnent** of, xxxix, 
369; Luigi Pulci and, xxxi, 65; 
Kossetti on, xlii, 1226; model for 
a "Samson," xxxi, 434; Torrigiani 
and, 24-5; work in S. Lorenzo 
Sacristy, 384 note 2; his man 
Urbino, 402 note 

Michelet, Taine on, xxxix, 437 

Micheletto, the engraver, xxxi, 95-6 

MicHiE, William, Epitaph for, vi, 
278 

Michol, reference to, xx, 187 

Mickle, Samuel, i, 59 

Micocolembo, xiv, 147 

Micomicona, Princess, xiv, 296-300 

Microbe, origin of term, xxxviii, 382 

Microscopic Organisms, Pasteur on, 
xxxviii, 360 

Midas, Dante on, xx, 230; ears of, 
iv, 83 

Midias, and Demosthenes, xii, 207 

Middle Ages, classics of, xxxii, 127; 
the grotesque in the, xxxix, 368- 
9; Hugo on architecture of, 368; 
philosophy of, xxviii, 223-4; poetry 
of the, xxvii, 363-5; Taine on, 
xxxix, 450, 457; works dealing 
with, 1, 22-3, 27-8 

Middle Doctrine of Buddha, xiv, 
677-81 



Middleton, Newman on, xxviii, 48 
Midian, reference to, xliv, 253 (9) 
Midianites, Mohammed on the, xiv, 

917 note 
Midwifery, Holmes on, xxxviii, 265-6 
Mien, the music-master, xliv, 55 (41) 
Migara, the treasurer, xiv, tj2^ 776- 

7, 781, 782-9 , „ 

Might, and justice, xlvni, 107 (298- 

300), 310 (878); opinion and, 108 

(303), no (311) 
Mighty Fortress is Our God, xiv, 

570-1 

Migratory Birds, Milton on, iv, 241 

Milan, Cathedral of, the eighth won- 
der, xxi, 198; corn scarcity in 
(1628), 204-7; fall of, xxxvi, 82; 
famine in, xxi, 470-86; insurrec- 
tion of, 207-36, 278-82; Lazzaretto 
of, 482-3; Louis XII at, xxxvi, 9; 
Machiavelli on princedom of, 7; 
plague of, xxi, 488-9, 52.^-56, 578- 
92, 635; power of, before French 
invasion, xxxvi, 40; Si ■)rza at, 44 

Milbanke, Miss, wife of Byron, xviii, 
402 

Milbourne, Luke, xxxix, 180 note 
34» 181 

Mildmay, Sir Walter, xxxv, 401 

Milinda, the king, xiv, 668-72 

Military Affairs, Machiavelli on, 
xxxvi, 42-52, 71-2, 74-5 

Military Service, in Body of Liber- 
ties, xliii, 71 

Military Spirit, in different states of 
society, xxvii, 391-2 

Military Training, in Milton's Acad- 
emy, iii, 257-8 

Militia, Bacon on a, iii, 54; congres- 
sional control of, xliii, 197 (15, 
16); provision for, under Confed- 
eration, 171; standing army and, 
X, 468-9; in United States, xliii, 
207 (2) 

Milk, Burke on composition of, xxiv, 
130; Harrison on, xxxv, 349 

Milkmaid and Pail, fable of, xvii, 

43 

Milky Way, ancient idea of, xlviii, 
450; Bacon on the, iii, 105; New- 
comb on the, XXX, 327, 333, 334; 
reference to the, iv, 244 

Mill, James, xxv, 3; Analysts of Hu- 
man Mind, 49, 195-6; death of, 
13 1-2; early life of, 8; Elements 
of Political Economy, 23-4, 45; 
English law, abhorrence of, 46; 
ethics and psychology of, 72-3; 
examiner of Indian corresi)ond- 
ence, 22-3; on feeling, 74; friend- 
ships, 39-40, 51-2; History of In- 
dia, 9, 21-2; influence of, 62; in- 
fluence among Benthamites, 68-71; 
criticized by Macaulay, 103-4; on 
Mackintosh and Tocqueville, 131; 
moral convictions, 35-8; on poetry 
and poets, 15-16; political belief, 



316 



GENERAL INDEX 



71-2; political philosophy mistaken, 
105; religious belief of, 30-3; son's 
education, 9-29; later relations 
with son, 117; tenderness lacking, 
38; unpublished dialogue on gov- 
ernment, 46; Westminster Review, 
connection with, 62-5, 86-7; work, 
estimation of, 132-3; writings for 
London Review, 120-30 
Mill, John Stuart, address at St. An- 
drews, XXV, 195; on American Civil 
War, 170-3; Autobiography of, 7- 
199; Autobiography, reasons for 
writing, 7-8; a Benthamite, 46-8, 
68-76; birth of, 8; Carlyle and, 1 14- 
15. 330; C'omte and Positivism, 177; 
correspondence with Comte, 136-8; 
Council, offered seat in, 160; on 
Demosthenes and Plato, 19-20; dis- 
satisfaction with present aims, 89- 
93, 96; Dissertations, 167-8; early 
essays, 50-1; early ideas of the 
poets, 16-17; early wish to be a 
reformer, 88; edits Bentham's work 
on evidence, 76-8; edits father's 
Analysis, 195-6; edits London Re- 
view, 129-30, 133-4, 138-42; educa- 
tion, 9-14, 16-17; education in po- 
litical economy, 23-4; his education, 
remarks on, 25-9; elocution studied 
by, 20-1; Examination of Hamil- 
ton's Philosophy, 173-7; the Ex- 
aminer, writings in, 113; as ex- 
aminer in India House, 160; on 
fatalism, iio-ii; father's relations 
with, 38-9, 117; father's friends, 
relations with, 39-40; feelings cul- 
tivated, 95; first newspaper arti- 
cles, 60-1; France, visit to, 41-4; 
on French Revolution, 45-6, 87; 
friendship with Grote and the 
Austins, 51-5, 115; friendship with 
Maurice and Sterling, 100-3; ^i^P- 
piness, new theory of, 94; his 
History of Roman Government, 
14-15; hopes of human improve- 
ment, 153-4; in Hyde Park affair, 
184-5; improvement club, 80-2; In- 
dia Company, with, 57-9; in Ja- 
maica Committee, 188-90; law read 
by, 46; On Liberty, 203-325; re- 
marks on, 160-4; life and works, 
3-6; logic studied by, 17-19; logic, 
his work on, 104-5, 1 17-18, 134- 
6, 143-6, 157 note 2; London club 
formed, 84-6; love of the heroic, 
76; marginal notes made for father, 
45; marriage to Mrs. Taylor, 154- 
5; music, pleasure in, 95-6; Owen- 
ites debated with, 82-3; in Parlia- 
ment, 178-99; Parliamentary Re- 
form, pamphlet on, 164-5; Parlia- 
mentary Review, writings in, 79- 
80; philosophical^ studies, 48-50; 
on poetry, 75-6; his Political Econ- 
omy, i5i-3> 157-9; political phi- 
losophy of, 103-10, 111-12, 124-6, 



148-51, 169-70; popular editions of 
works, 178; private reading, 14; 
religious and moral influences, 
30-8; Representative Government, 
169-70; Roebuck and, 98-100; his 
Spirit of the Age, 1 13-14; on his 
step-daughter, 169; Subjection of 
Women, 170; Taylor, Mrs., anci, 
120-4, 148, 154-9, 161-2; Utilita- 
rianism, 170; Utilitarian Society 
formed by, 55-7; on verse writing, 
15-16; Westminster Review, con- 
nection with, 63, 64 note, 66, 86- 
7; woman suffrage and, 70-1, 157 
note I ; Wordsworth, acquaintance 
with, 96-8; writing, his method of, 
143-4; writings (1830-2), 117-19; 
writings (1833-4), 128-9; on his 
writings, 156-7 
Millar's Historical View of English 

Government, xxv, 11 
Miller, Chaucer's, xl, 26-7; Dryden 

on Chaucer's, xxxix, 174 
Miller, Hey the Dusty, vi, 317 
Miller, Rev. Alex., Burns on, vi, 106 
Miller, Hugh, The Babie, xli, 944-5 
Mills, wind and water, introduction 

of, X, 215 
Milnes, Richard Monckton, Sonnet, 

xlii, 1098 
Milo, Titus Annius, Clodius and, 
xii, 254, 255; defence of, by 
Cicero, ix, 4; trial of, loo-i; xii, 
255-6 
Milo of Croton, Cicero on, ix, 55; 

his feat at Olympia, 57 
Miltiades, Aristides and, xii, 84-5; 
Byron on, xli, 835; in fetters, 
xxvii, 24; Themistocles and, xii, 8 
Miltitz, Charles, xxxvi, 358, 359 
Milto, concubine of Cyrus, xii, 63 
Milton, John, father of the poet, iv, 3 
Alilton, John, the poet, Areopagit- 
ICA, iii, 199-244; Arnold on, 
xxviii, 78, 81; Arnold on lines 
from, 73-4; Arnold on prose of, 
82; austere goodness of, 179-80; 
Bagehot on Comus, 213; Bagehot 
on Paradise Lost, 201-12; Bage- 
hot on Samson Agonistes of, 184- 
5; blindness of, iv, 3, 5, 86, 88, 
138-9; books of, burned at Ox- 
ford, V, 433; Browning on, xlii, 
1 109; Burke on, xxiv, 53, 55, 70- 
I, 104-5; Burke on his picture of 
Hell, 146; Carlyle on, xxv, zz^-y, 
461; on Charles II, xxvii, 182; 
dau.shters of, iv, 5-6; on divorce, 
xxviii, 190-2; Dryden on, xiii, 13, 
51, 60; xxxix, 161; xl, 406; early 
desires to write a great epic, iv, 
21-22; Eliot on Poems of, 1, 9; 
Emerson on, v, 132, 149, 186, 450, 
456; Gray on, xl, 467; Hazlitt on,, 
xxvii, 2^2'y highest merit of, v, 63; 
Hugo on, xxxix, Z72-3\ Hugo on 
Paradise of, 367; humor and 



GENERAL INDEX 



317 



knowledge of ordinary life lacking 
in, xxviii, 183-6; Johnson on, 213; 
Keightley's Life of, remarks on, 
174; liberty, his passion for, iv, 
4, 194; life and works, 3-6; mar- 
riage to Mary Powell, xxviii, 187- 
90, 192; Masson's Life of, review 
of, 1 71-4; mention of, in Crom- 
well, xxxix, 400; James Mill on, 
XXV, 16; outline of life, xxviii, 
174-5; Pascal on, xlviii, 69 (192), 
153 (448), IS4 (455); personal 
beauty, xxviii, 180-1; Poems of, 
iv; poetry of, remarks on, xxviii, 
198-201; on poets, v, 181; political 
relations, xxviii, 193-6; political 
writings, 196-7; Ruskin on, 109, 
114-15; Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 
133; sensibility of, xxviii, 186; 
Severity, 182; Shelley on, xxvii, 
35i» 358, 365-7; xli, 880; Shelley 
on Paradise Lost of, xxvii, 372; 
strength of his nature, xxviii, 
181; his studiousness, 182; Swift 
on, xxvii, 120; Thoreau on, xxviii, 
426; Tractate on Education, iii, 
247-59; at twenty-three, iv, 30; 
on his wife, deceased, iv, 88; 
Wordsworth on, xxxix, 321, 336-8; 
xli, 691, 692-3; Wordsworth on 
sonnets of, xli, 697; Wright on, 
xxviii, 198 

Milton, Essay on, Bagehot's, xxviii, 
1 7 1-2 14 

Mimas, death of, xiii, 351 

MiMNERMUS IN CHURCH, xlii, 1159" 

60 
Mimosa, Longfellow on the, xlii, 

1388 
Min, first king of Egypt, xxxiii, 7, 

48-9 
Min Tzu-ch*ien, xliv, 19 (7), 34 (2, 

4), 35 (12, 13) 
Mincius, smooth-sliding, iv, 76 
Mincius, the Triton, xiii, 333-4 
Mind, anticipation of the, xxxix, 
153; Bacon on operations of the, 
141, 142-3, 151; Berkeley on the, 
xxxvii, 268, 269-71, 288; body 
and, connection between, xxiv, 
113; body and, Pascal on, xlviii, 
31; Burke on study of the, xxiv, 
47-9; Byron on the, xviii, 443; 
xxxii, 405; Channing on improve- 
ment of the, xxviii, 340-8; Chan- 
ning on power of, 362; Descartes 
on reality of the, xxxiv, 29; 
diffusion of, ii, 267 (57, 60); 
diseases of the, 144 (75) ; as the 
first cause, 92; geometrical and 
imaginative, xlviii, 419; heart and, 
relations of, v, 292; its hell, xlii, 
1481; Helmholtz on sciences of, 
XXX, 181-2; Hume on perceptions 
of the, xxxvii, 316-17; Hume on 
study of the, 312-15; Locke on a 



sound, 9; Locke on training the, 
28 et seq., 74-5; Marvell on the, xl, 
387; materialistic ideas of, xxxiv, 
106-9; Marcus Aurelius on the, 
ii, 264 (48) ; mathematical and in- 
tuitive, compared, xlviii, 7-10; 
memory and, St. Augustine on, 
vii, 178-9; More on pleasures of, 
xxxvi, 213, 214-15; native pro- 
pensities of the, xxxvii, 90; Penn 
on pleasures of the, i, 348-9 (96- 
98); perturbations of the, vii, 179; 
Pope on study of the, xl, 417; 
religiousness of, xlv, 875; Rous- 
seau on the, xxxiv, 265-6; Schiller 
on nature of the, xxxii, 276-8; 
Shakespeare on diseases of, xlvi, 
367; Shelley on the, xli, 879; 
troubled, no medicine for, xlvii, 
678; virtues and defects of, xxxiv, 
362-7^', Watts on the, xl, 408 
(see also Understanding) 

Mind, My, to Me a Kingdom Is, 
xl, 211 

Mindarus, xii, 137, 139 

Mineralogy, Locke on study of, 
xxxvii, 157; in New Atlantis, iii, 
187 

Minerva, Jove*s keys and, v, 96; on 
mankind, 227; the shield of, iv, 
58 (see also Athena) 

Mines, discovery of, in Chili, xxix, 
336-7; fertility of, x, 175; prod- 
uce of, a source of capital, 230- 
i; rent of, 176, 178-84 

Minicianus, Cornelius, letter to, ix, 
264 

Mining, in Chili, xxix, 277, 282-4, 
359-61, 366-7; Smith on projects 
of, X, 421-2 

Minister, in Faust, xix, 170 

Ministers, Burns on "whids" of, vi, 
79; Chaucer on, xl, 25; Penn on, 
i» 376-7 (457-467) ; who change 
to better their income, xv, 108-9; 
Woolman on true, i, 184, 255; 
Woolman's counsel to, 324-6 

Ministers (of state), Bacon on, iii, 
99-100; Confucius on, xliv, 11 
(19); Henry VII's policy toward, 
xxxix, 81 ; Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 
79-80; Penn on, i, 369 

Ministry, Emerson on the, v, 33-41 ; 
Sidney on the, xxvii, 18; Walton 
on the, XV, 345 

Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing's, » 
xxvi, 287-366; remarks on, 286 

Minnesingers, Poe on the, xxviii, 
390 

Minorities, Lincoln on duty of, xliii, 
339-40 

Minority Representation, Mill on, 
XXV, 165-6 

Minos, in Crete, xxii, 272; Dante 
on, XX, 21; Homer on, xxii, 166; 
judge of the dead, xiii, 225-6; 



318 



GENERAL INDEX 



judge in Hades, xxvi, 172; Scylla 

and, viii, 96 
Minotaur, Dante on the, xx, 50-1; 

reference to the, xxvi, 128 
Minshull, Elizabeth, wife of Milton, 

iv, 6 
Minstrel, The, at Lincluden, vi. 

Minstrels, Homer on, xxii, 117 

Minutius ^milianus, ix, 209-11 

Miocene, Upper, Lyell on the, 
xxxviii, 434 

Mirabeau, Carlyle's estimate of, v, 
191; Emerson on, 275; on the 
French aristocracy, 422; on Octo- 
ber Sixth, xxiv, 222 note, on 
political societies, x, 464-5; ugli- 
ness of, V, 316 

Miracles, Bacon on, iii, 162; of 
Bible, Browne on, 272-4, 284-7, 
292 {^2^)'^ Calvin on, xxxix, 36-7; 
Dante on Christian, xx, 390; Em- 
erson on, V, 31, 32, 303; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 400; Hume on, xxxvii, 
396-415; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 
193 (6) ; of Old Testament, Les- 
sing on, xxxii, 199; only in an- 
cient history, v, 30; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 284-304, 354, 365; Plutarch 
on, xii, 189-90; Rousseau on, 
xxxiv, 295-7; in Utopia, xxxvi, 
242-3; Walton on, xv, 341-2; 
Whitman on, xxxix, 421 

Miranda, in The Tempest, with 
Prospero on island, xlvi, 381-7, 
391; first meeting with Ferdinand, 
394-7; with Ferdinand, at his task, 
413-15; betrothed to Ferdinand, 
423-9; discovered to Alonso, etc., 
437-8; Hunt on, xxvii, 309; Shel- 
ley on, and Ariel, xli, 871 

Miranda, Francesco, expedition of, 
xliii, 291 

Mirandola, Galeotto della,xxxi, 353-4 

Mirandola, Pico della, xlviii, 28 note 

Mirandola, Picus, xv, 327 

Mirrors, ancient, xxxv, 339-4.0 

Mirth, EccLEsiASTES on, xliv, 340 
(2), 347 (4), 350 (15); in music, 
xli, 491; parentage of, iv, 31; 
pleasures of, 31-5; religion and, 
Herbert on, xv, 410 

MiRZA, Vision of, by Addison, xxvii, 
77-81 

Misael, Luther on, xxxvi, 346 

Misanthropy, Bacon on, iii, 36; Soc- 
rates on, ii, 82-3 

Misbelievers, Mohammed on, xlv, 
893» 943» 958, 960, 962, 969, 971- 
2, 991-2, 995, 997, 1013 

Miscelin, a kind of bread, xxxv, 296, 
328 

Misenus, death and burial of, xiii, 
217, 219; the Harpies and, 139 

Miserliness, Blake on, xli, 602; con- 
trasted with avarice, xxxvi, 53; 
More on, 212; in princes, 55-6 



Misers, Burns on, vi, 233; fable of, 
xvii, 37; Penn on the, i, 343 (45), 
347 (88-91) 

Misery, "acquaints with strange bed- 
fellows," xlvi, 408; contemplation 
of, vii, 237-9; death's harbinger, 
iv, 264; islands in sea of, xli, 858- 
9; Kempis on bearing of, vii, 290; 
miracles and, xlvi, 238; origin and 
cessation of, xlv, 639-40, 677-8, 
690; Pascal on human, xlviii, 131- 
2, 133 (405); truth and, iv, 375 

Misfortune (s), Arabian verses on^ 
xvi, 18; Burns on, vi, 73; children 
and, iii, 20; compensation for, v, 
102-3, 106-7; envy bred by, iii, 
24-5; indifferency of, ii, 136 (56); 
Marcus Aurelius on bearing, 222 
(49), 226 (8), 230 (18); of others, 
pleasure in, xxiv, 41-4; Penn on 
use of, i, 403 (150); profit from, 
ii, 156 (106); Woolman on, i, 266 
(see also Adversity) 

Misology, Kant on, xxxii, 325; Soc- 
rates on, ii, 82-4 

Mississippi River, provision for navi- 
gation of, xliii, 190; sediment of, 
xxxviii, 424; Thoreau on the, 
xxviii, 421 

Mistakes of a Night (see She 
Stoops to Conquer) 

Mistletoe, origin of the, xi, 22-3 

Mistress, His Supposed, xl, 307-8 

Mistress, Lines to His, xxvii, 284 

Mistress, The Lost, xlii, 11 11 

Mistress Mine, xl, 267-8 

Mistress, Wishes for the Sup- 
posed, xl, 369-71 

Mistrust, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 
47, 130; Christian on, 134-6; pun- 
ishment of, 224 

Misunderstanding, Emerson on, v. 

Misuse, of good things, iv, 162; is 

loss, i, 346 (70) ; Sidney on, xxvii, 

38 
Mitchel, Dr., i, 153-4 
Mitchell, Collector, Verses to, vi, 

582-3 

Mites, Pascal on, xlvni, 2(i 
Mitford, exposed by Grote, xxv, 66; 

Mill on history of, 14 
Mithra, Utopian name of God, xxxvi, 

238, 247 
Mithridates, and Antony, xii, 371-2, 

373 
Mithridates, Chrysippus, ix, 379 
Mithridates of Pontus, water-wheel 

of, XXX, 190 
Mithropaustes, and Demaratus, xii, 

32 
Mitscherlich, on fermentation, 

xxxviii, 362, 367 and note 
Mivart, St. George, objections to 

Natural Selection, xi, 229-61 
Mlithe, the jester, xlix, 258 
Mnason of Cyprus, xliv, 478 (16) 



GENERAL INDEX 



319 



Mnason, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 281-2 
Mnesicles, Athenian architect, xii, 52 
Mnesiphilus and Themistocles, xii, 6 
Mnesiptolema, daughter of Themis- 
tocles, xii, 33, 34 
Mnesitheus, of Athens, xxxv, 289 
Mnestheus, in the ^neid, in arch- 
ery contest, xiii, 199, 200; in bat- 
tle, 414; at the combat, 399; in 
defence of town, 323-4, 331; in 
Trojan camp, 302, 307; in Trojan 
games, 186-91 
Mobs, Emerson on, v, 103, 256; Man- 
zoni on, xxi, 224-5; Ruskin on, 
xxviii, 118 
Mocking-birds, in Brazil, xxix, 65; 

Longfellow on, xlii, 1392 
Moderation, Confucius on, xliv, 21 
(27); Descartes on, xxxiv, 22; 
Franklin on, i, 83; Hamilton on, 
xliii, 214; Hume on, xxxvii, 423; 
Kant on, xxxii, 324; Penn on, i, 

363 
Modern English Drama, xviii 
Modern Europe, works dealing with, 

1, 29 
Modern Man, Whitman on the, xlii, 

1484 
Modestus, Metius, Pliny on, ix, 197, 

264; Regulus and, 199 
Modesty, Burke on amiability of, 
xxiv, 04; Confucius on, xliv, 60 
(6) ; Dryden on excessive, xviii, 
12; Epictetus on, ii, 158 (iii); 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 426; impudence 
and, xviii, 217; resides with other 
virtues, 207; in speech, Franklin 
on, i, 19, 91; Steele on, xxvii, 
188; violets for, vi, 431; virtue 
and, ix, 262 
Modification (see Variation) 
Modred, Gray on, xl, 469 
Mogador, island of, xxxiii, 208 
Moggallana, xlv, 716, 726, 727, 794 
Mohammad, son of Suleyman Ez- 

Zeyni, xvi, 203, 234-5, 236, 241 
Mohammed, the prophet, Abu Ghal 
and, xlv, 889 note 3; the believers 
and, 919 note; the blind man and, 
895 note; the caravan and, 955 
notes 2, 3; Dante on, xx, 280 note 
12; in Dante's Hell, 117; the hill 
and, iii, 33; on himself, xlv, 1003; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 398; Hume on 
ethics of, xxvii, 217; Jews and, 
xlv, 977 notes; on learning and 
folly, V, 305; liaison with Mary, 
xlv, 1006 note i; life, 886; the 
Meccans and, 956 note 5; at Ohod, 
972 note; Pascal on, xlviii, 198 
(595-601); the Quraish and, xlv, 
1008 note i; at siege of Medina, 
999 note 6; on the spoils, 1006 
note 32; the sun and, xvi, 34 
note; supposed prophecy of, in the 
Bible, xlv, 979 note 2; Thoreau 



on, xxviii, 433; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 
85; wives ot, xlv, 999 note 2, 
1 001 note 16, 1003 note; on his 
wives, 1001-2, 1004, 1005, 1006-7 
Mohammed Aben Alhamar, xxxix, 88 
iMohammedan Literature, 1, 21-2, 27 
Mohammedanism, xlv, 866; Bacon 
on rise of, iii, 145; Browne on, 
291; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 303; 
Taine on, xxxix, 457 (see also 
Koran) 
Mohun, at Crecy, xxxv, 23 
Moine, Le, Dryden on, xiii, 13 
Moiris, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 10, 

50 
Moiris, Lake, built by Moiris the 
king, xxxiii, 50; Herodotus on, 

Molecular Forces, Newton on, xxxix, 

159 

Moles, eyes of, xi, 149; xxix, 62 

Molesworth, Sir William, xxv, 126, 
128, 129, 134 

Moliere, Jean Baptiste Poquelin, 
English dramatists and, xxxiv, 
142; Goethe on, xxxii, 129-30; 
Hazlitt on, xxvii, 294; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 375, 376, 391, 392; life 
and works, xxvi, 188; as Orgon 
in Tartuffe, 189; Sainte-Beuve 
on, xxxii, 129-30, 135, 137; Tar- 
TUFFC, xxvi, 189-284; Voltaire on 
Misanthrope of, xxxiv, 139 

Molinera, Lady, in !Don Quixote, 
xiv, 38 

Moloch, in Paradise Lost, iv, 100, 
112-13, 216; reference to, 14 (23) 

Molothrus, Darwin on the, xxix, 62^ 
3; instincts of, xi, 273-4 

Moluccas, Drake in the, xxxiii, 227- 
30 

Momemphis, battle of, xxxiii, 85-6 

Moment, the, alone is decisive, xix, 
378 

Monad, Augustine, St., on the, vii, 
60 

Monaeses, and Antony, xii, 363, 
372 

Monaldi, Sandrino, xxxi, 245 note^ 
248-9 

Monarchy, Burke on, xxiv, 274; 
Emerson on, v, 254; Pope on, xl, 
439; republics compared with, v, 
256; Rousseau on origin of, xxxiv, 
220-6 (see also Princedoms) 

Monasteries, Harrison on, xxxv, 
244; Luther on, xxxvi, 3i5-i7> 
321-2, 331, 342 

Monatunkanet, xliii, 152, 156 

Moncontour, battle of, xxxviii, 53 

Mondella, Agnese, in I Promessi 
Sposi, mother of Lucia, xxi. 37-8; 
advises Renzo, 41 ; with Father 
Galdino, 50-3; advised by Father 
Cristoforo, 71-4; plans marriage 
' of Lucia, 92-s, 98-9; with Menico, 

VOL. L — HC (11) 



920 



GENERAL INDEX 



105; at Abbondio's, 118, 120, 128- 
30; goes to convent, 134-8; to 
Monza, 138-49; 183-4; reunion 
with Lucia, 410-12; with Cardinal 
Federigo, 414-15; at the tailor's, 
427-9; receives gift from the Un- 
named, 445-6; learns Lucia's vow, 
446-50; tries to find Renzo, 450-1; 
corresponds with Renzo; 457-61; 
flight to castle of Unnamed, 495- 
502, 508-13; at the castle, 515-17; 
learns Lucia's safety from Renzo, 
641-2; returns home, 643-5; with 
her grandchildren, 66y 

Mondella, Lucia, in I Promessi 
Sposi, marriage of, forbidden, xxi, 
14; with Renzo, 36-7; confesses 
Rodrigo's persecution, 39-42; sends 
for Father Cristoforo, 49-53; ad- 
vised by Father Cristoforo, 71-4; 
plans for marriage with Renzo, 
92-5, 98-9; consents to plan, 103- 
4; plot to carry off, iio-ii; at 
Abbondio's with Renzo, 11 7- 18, 
121, 123, 130; goes to convent, 
134-8; flight to Monza, 138-43; at 
the convent, 144-9, 182-4; dis- 
covered by Rodrigo, 304; learns 
of Renzo's mishaps, 306-9; ab- 
duction of, 339-49; in castle of the 
Unnamed, 351-8; release planned, 
383-6; taken to village, 396-409; 
reunion with mother, 410-12; 
visited by Cardinal, 414-16; life 
at the tailor's, 427-8; Donna Pras- 
sede and, 429-31; return home, 
431-3 J goes with Donna Prassede, 
445; confesses vow to mother, 
446-50; at Prassede's, unable to 
forget Renzo, 461-3; taken with 
plague, 592-3; found by Renzo, 
620-6; absolved from vow, 62g-23; 
returns home, 645-6, 650-1 ; mar- 
ried to Renzo, 661-2; her daugh- 
ter, 667; lesson of her life, 667-8 

Mondrames, xxxv, 124 

Money, Bacon on need of spreading, 
iii, 42; Burns on, thirst for, vi, 
88; in Chiloe, xxix, 291; as cir- 
culating capital, X, 228; congres- 
sional right of borrowing, xliii, 
196 (2); Emerson on, strife for, 
v, 19; evils from use of, 266; of 
ancient Germans, xxxiii, 97; in- 
crease of, in relation to wages 
and profits, x, 296-7; justice and, 
Shakespeare on, xlvi, 281; makes 
money, x, 98; as measure of value, 
38-9, 43-4, 49; Milton on power 
of, iv, 386; Mirabeau on, x, 465; 
More on wrongs due to, xxxvi, 
252; need of continual supply of, 
X, 230; origin and use of, 29-35; 
paper (see Paper Money) ; Penn 
on love of, i, 408-9, 351 (127); 
Plutarch on use of» xii, 161; 



prolific nature of, i, 108; its pro- 
portion to produce circulated by 
Its means, x, 245; quantity of, 
dependent on consumable goods, 
280-1 ; quantity of, in relation to 
industry, 244-5; regulation of, un- 
der Confederation, xliii, 174, 175; 
regulation of, by Congress, 196 
(5); revenue and, x, 237-40; as 
reward for services, xxiv, 405; 
Ruskin on love of, xxviii, 119; 
scarcity of, x, 334-5; Sophocles on 
power of, viii, 252; standards of, 
x, 45-8; states forbidden to coin, 
xliii, 198 (10); Tennyson on 
power of, xlii, 10 14, 1015; Tenny- 
son on strife for, 1053-5; trade 
does not require, x, 334; varia- 
tion in value of, 38-9, 48; as 
wealth, 237-40, 326-47; Woolman 
on, pursuit of, i, 311, 312, 318-19 
Money-love, Mr., in Pilgrim's i*ROG- 

REss, XV, 106-11, 113 
Money Prices, remark on, x, 49 
Mongrels, compared with hybrids, 

xi, 327-30 
Monicongo, epitaph by, on DoJf 

Quixote, xiv, 540 
Monied Interest, defined, x, 293; 
increase of, 294; remarks on the, 
xxiv, 258 
Monimus, the Cynic, ii, 204 (15) 
Monk, Chaucer's, xl, 15-17; Dryden 

on Chaucer's, xxxix, 172 
Monkeys, first appearance of, xi, 

356; tails of, 243-4 
Monkeys, in Faust, xix, 94-100 
Monks, Calvin on, xxxix, 39; Dante 
on corruption of the, xx, 381-2; 
Harrison on the, xxxv, 246; ir- 
regular, xxxvi, 321 note; Luther 
on, 315-17. 329. 350-1; Luther on 
confession of, 321-2; in Milton's 
Limbo, iv, 150; Pascal on corrup- 
tions of, xlviii, 313 (889); pro- 
verb on, xxxvi, 274 
Monnica, mother of St, Augustine, 
vii, 3; cares for son, 25-7, 73-6, 
99, 142-3, 148; funeral of, 162-3; 
last sickness and death of, 154, 
158-61; life and character of, 154- 
8; in Milan, 82-3; in the Milan 
troubles, 153; offerings to the 
churches, 83-4; piety of, 14-15; 
prayer for, 164-6; vision of, 44-6; 
Walton on visions of, xv, 341 
Monody, by Burns, vi, 516 
Monogamy, among the Germans, 
xxxiii, 105; of Greeks and Egyp- 
tians, 45 
Monolith of Amasis, xxxiii, 88-9 
Monopoly, enemy of good manage- 
ment, X, 157; forbidden, in Body 
OF Liberties, xliii, 72 (9) ; ia 
manufactures and agriculture, x, 
358; as means to riches, iii, 94 



GENERAL INDEX 



321 



Monopoly Prices, x, 65 

Monotony, of life, Bacon on, iii, 10; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 243 (46) 

Monroe, James, in Louisiana Pur- 
chase, xliii, 267 note 

Monroe Doctrine, The, xliii, 296- 
8; Russia and the, 459 note 

Monstrosities, beauty in, iii, 280; 
Darwin on, xi, 2-]^ 258; defini- 
tion of, 58; under nature and do- 
mestication, 58-9 

Montagu, Earl of Huntingdon, xxxix, 

Montague, and Addison, xxvii, 168 
Montague, Bishop, xv, 343-4 
Montague, Lady Wortley, xxxiv, 97 
Montague, picture-dealer, v, 333 
Montagues and Capulets, xx, 171 

note 13 
Montaigne, Michel Eyguem de. Art 
of Conversation, xlviii, 414; Of 
BooKES, xxxii, 89-105; on Casta- 
lio, xxxvii, 75; on ceremony, xviii, 
12-13; character of, xxxii, 112; 
on his character, 71-2; in the civil 
wars, 119-22; commentators of, 
111-12; devotees of, 109; Dryden 
on, xxxix, 167; on his education, 
xxxii, 67-71; on his essays, 4, 74, 
89-90; Of Friendship, 74-88; Haz- 
litt on, xxvii, 294; Hugo on lan- 
guage of, xxxix, 394; Institution 
and Education of Children, xxxii, 
29-73; On Judgment of Happi- 
ness, 5-8j^ on his learning, 29-30; 
on lies, iii, 9; his life, resume of, 
xxxii, 113; life and works, 3; lit- 
erary style of, 122-4; 3S mayor 
of Bordeaux, 116-19; n^^" ,9.^ his 
time, 115; Pascal on, xlviii, 13 
(18), 23-4, 33 (74), 80 (220), 87- 
8,111(315), 113 (325), 286 (813), 
395-406; To Philosophize is to 
Learn How to Die, xxxii, 9-28; 
on his reading, 91-105; recovered 
letters of, no; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
280-1; Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 109- 
25, 134, 136-7; Steven de la Boetie, 
and, 74-5, 80-1, 86-8; on Tacitus, 
xxxiii, 94; times of, xxxii, 114; 
travels in Italy, v, 216-7; Voltaire 
on Essays of, xxxiv, 103 
Montaigne, Essay on, Sainte- 

Beuve*s, xxxii, 109-25 
Montanarolo, in The Betrothed, 

xxi, 334 
Montanus, Calvin on, xxxix, 40 
Montaperto, battle of, xx, 135 note 8 
Montefeltro, Buonconte da, xx, 166 

and note 8 
Montefeltro, Guido da, xx, 113 note 

4; in Dante's Hell, 112- 16 
Montejan, M. de, xxxviii, 9, 12, 13 
Montelupo, Raffaello da, xxxi, 73 

note 7, 216 
Monterey, Dana on, xxiii, 75, 85-8, 
239, 404 



Montesquieu, on classification of 
citizens, xxiv, 333; inventor of 
national workshops, xxviii, 469; 
Le Temple de Gnide, xxxix, 404; 
Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 128; 
Sainte-Beuve on Spirit of Laws, 
131; Taine on, xxxix, 459 

Montevideo, Darwin on, xxix, 155^ 

Montevarchi, Francesco da, xxxi, 
445-6 

Montferrat, William, Marquis of, 
Dante on, xx, 176 and note 17 

Montgomerie, James, Burns on, vi, 
189 note 

Montgomerie's Peggy, vi, 25 

Montgomery, M., and Henry II, 
xxxiii, 193 

Montgomery, Sir Hugh, in Chevy 
Chase, xl, 99-100, 101; at Otter- 
burn, XXXV, 94; xl, 92, 93, 94 

Montgomery, Richard, Burns on, vi, 

54 
Montjoie, origin of cry of, xlix, 188 
Montluc, Jean de, xxxi, 217 note 1, 

260 
Montmorency, Marechal de, xxxViii, 

53 
Montone, Andrea de (see Braccio) 
Montone, river, Dante on, xx, 70 

and notes 
Montorsoli, Giovanni Angelo, xxxi, 

420 note 
Montrose, Marquis of. My Dear 

AND Only Love, xl, 368-9 
Moodie, Rev. Alexander, Burns on, 
vi, 104-5, 372-3 (see also Twa 
Herds) 
Moods, Pascal on, xlviii, 46 (107) 
Moon, Addison on the, xlv, 547; 
Browning on the, xlii, 1142; Dante 
on the, XX, 292-^; Dryden on the, 
xl, 410; as Egyptian goddess, 
xxxiii, 29; Faust's apostrophe to 
the, xix, 22; heat from the, xxx, 
273; Milton on the, iv, 239, 250, 
311; motions and distance of , xxx, 
317-18; motion of, Copernicus on, 
xxxix, 57; motion of, Voltaire on, 
xxxiv, 118-19, 120; Pascal on su- 
perstitions concerning, xlviii, 13 
(18); Raleigh on the, xxxix, 113; 
Shelley on the, xli, 876, 879; tides 
and, xxx, 294-6, 305-6, 3.17-19; 
tides and, Descartes on, xxxiv, 37; 
tides and, Voltaire on, no, 120; 
weather influenced by, xxx, 313 
Moon, To the, by Shelley, xli, 870 
MooN, To the, by Sidney, xl, 217 
Moone, Thomas, with Drake, xxxiii, 

151, 217, 221, 238, 259, 267 
Moor-Hen, The Bonie, vi, 274-5 
Moore, Sir John, Burial of, xli, 

843-4 
Moore, Thomas, Poe on, xxviii, 390, 

396; poems by, xli, 837-43 
Mora, Giangiacomo, the barber, xxi, 

5, 587 



322 



GENERAL INDEX 



Moraines, lateral, central, and ter- 
minal, XXX, 226-yy 238-9 
Moral, meaning of word, v, 291 
Moral Causes, Taine on, xxxix, 441 
Moral Education, Locke on, xxxvii, 
28-59, 63-71, 82-126, 143, 168; Mill 
on, XXV, 36; Milton on, iii, 252, 

Moral Instruction, Kant on, xxxii, 

341 note 2 
Moral Life, Buddhist precepts of, 

xlv, 759 
Moral Perfection, Franklin on, i, 

82, 89 
Moral Philosophy, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

429; Hume on, xxxvii, 305-6, 314, 

354-5, 444-5 (see also Ethics) 
Moral Progress, Emerson on, v, 

14 1-2 
Moral Sciences, Channing on study 

of, xxviii, 340; Helmholtz on, XXX, 

182; Taine on, xxxix, 451 
Moral Sense, Bentham on term, xxv, 

46; Emerson on the, v, 26-9, 294; 

Kant on, xxxii, 373, 392; Poe on 

the, xxviii, 388 
Moralists, Siofney on, xxvii, 17-21, 

24-S 
Morality, autonomy the supreme 
principle of, xxxii, 363-4, 370-1, 
375-6; Bacon on, and atheism, iii, 
47; Bagehot on positive, xxviii, 
212; beauty and, v, 320; belief in 
Providence and, xxxvii, 423, 428- 
9; in books, criticism of, xxvii, 
232-3; Burke on beauty as basis 
of, xxiv, 95-6; Burns on, vi, 222; 
censorship of, iii, 217-19; charge 
of danger to, xxxvii, 385; com- 
mon rational notions of, xxxii, 
323-35; criticism of defects in, 
xxvii, 257; culture and, Rousseau 
on, xxxiv, 164; Descartes's code 
of, 21-4; Descartes on study of, 8, 
9; defined, xxxii, 370; empirical 
and metaphysical bases of, 337-43. 
356-7; empirical and rational bases 
of, 372-5; equalizes all, v, 301; 
esthetics and, xxxii, 282, 283, 287- 
91; first manifestations of, 295-6; 
Franklin's plan of, i, 82-90; free 
will and, xxxii, 378, 379-84, 386; 
Hume on standard of, xxvii, 216- 
17; immaterialism and, xxxvii, 
297; immortality and, xlviii, 80 
(219); imperatives of, xxxii, 347, 
349-70, 384^6 (see also Categorical 
Imperative) ; interest attaching to 
ideas of, 380-1, 391-2; intrinsic 
worth of, 366, 370; Locke on pop- 
ular, xxxvii,^ 135-6; love the se- 
cret of, xxvii, 354; Marcus Aure- 
lius on the highest, ii, 255 (69); 
Mill on Christian, xxv, 252-5; Mill 
on standards of, 208-9; natural to 
man, xxxiv, 277-^2-, necessity and 
liberty in regard to, xxxvii, 385- 



91; need of metaphysic of, xxxii, 
318-21; refinement and, 250, 269; 
Pascal on standard of, xlviii, 128 
(383); Pascal on true, 10; Penn 
on ^ true, i, 391-2; philosophical 
basis of, need of, xxxii, 335-6; 
pleasure inseparable ftom, v, 95 ; 
poetry as teacher of, xxvii, 353-4, 
356-7; religion and. Mill on, xxv, 
31-2; revelation and, Dryden on, 
xiii, 32; of rugged countries, xli, 
538-9; among savages, xxxiv, 190- 
5; spurious principles of, due to 
Heteronomy of Will, xxxii, 363-4, 
371-2; unconscious of itself, xxv, 
339-41; of youth and age, iii, iii; 
Washington on, xliii, 260 

Morals, Fundamental Principles 
OF, Kant's, xxxii, 317-95 

Morangis, Abbe, Burke on, xxiv, 294 

Moravians, attitude of, toward war, 
i, 146; marriage among, 150; prac- 
tices of, 149-50 

Moray, Earl John, his raid into Eng- 
land, XXXV, 83-4; at Otterburn, 91, 
92, 93 

Morbeke, Sir Denis, xxxv, 52, 59-60 

Mordecai, Dante on, xx, 215; honors 
of, xxxiv, 379 

Mordrains, King, xxxv, 195; Gala- 
had and, 217 

Mordred, son of Arthur, xx, 135 
note 3 

More and Less, tragedy of, v, 106 

More, Sir George, and Dr. Donne, 
XV, 330-3, 336, 352 

More, Hannah, On a Work of, vi, 
200 

More, Sir Thomas, accused of tak- 
ing bribes, xxxvi, 121-2; accused 
of treason, 122-6; affection for his 
father, 113; ambassador to Cam- 
bray, 109-10; ambassador for mer- 
chants, 96; Anne Boleyn and, 119- 
20; ascetic practices, ,115; on 
Augustine, St., 94; barrister, 94; 
burgess in Parliament, 95; the 
Canterbury nun and, 120; chan- 
cellor of Lancaster, 102; Charles 
V on, 140-1; at Charterhouse, 94; 
conviction of, 137-8; counsel for 
Pope, 96-7; (Tromwell advised by, 
119; daughters of, 95, 105-6; edu- 
cation and youthful wit, 93;4; em- 
bassies to Flanders and France, 
103; on his embassy to Flanders, 
143; embassy to Spain offered to, 
1 01-2; on English Church, 109; 
freedom from anger, 109; Furni- 
val's Inn and, 94; gentleness 
toward opponents, 102-3; Peter 
Giles on, 255; Henry VII, troubles 
with, 95; Henry VIII and, 96-7, 
102, 103, 104, 107-8, no, 115-16, 
119, 123-4; heroism of, v, 131; 
imprisoned in tower, xxxvi, 127- 
31; indictment and trial, 132-7; 



GENERAL INDEX 



323 



Jonson on, xxvii, 60; Johnson on, 
xxxix, 236; justice of, xxxvi, 112; 
on king's marriage and suprem- 
acy, 119, 123; lands of, 129; last 
days and^ death, 138-40; lawyer, 
p6; learning and power of speak- 
ing, 103; Life by Roper, 93-141; 
Lord Chancellor, no, 111-14, 116- 
18, 12 1 -2; manner of dress, 115; 
marriage, 94; patience with slan- 
ders of merchants, 103; piety of, 
104-5, ii4> 116-17, 118-19, 126, 
127; poverty, 118; reader at Furni- 
val's Inn, 94; religious writings 
and present from clergy, 1 14-15; 
Lord Rich with, 131-2; Sidney on, 
xxvii, 20; speaker of Parliament, 
xxxvi, 97-100; three wishes of, 
104; under-sheriff of London, 96; 
unselfishness of his aims, 104; 
Utopia, 143-257; remarks on Uto- 
pia of, 92; virtues and wisdom of, 
93; Walton on, xv, 327; Wolsey 
and, xxxvi, loo-i 
Morelli, Dr., Dryden on, xiii, 58 
Morequito, King, of Aromaia, xxxiii, 
^343-4, 368 ^ 

Morgan, chariot of, xxxn, 152 
Morgan, Col., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

417-18 
Morgan, Matthew, xxxiii, 237, 256, 

263 
Morgan, Miles, xxxiii, 276 
Morgant, the giant, xiv, 21 
Morley, his work on liberty, xxv, 6 
Morluc (see Montluc) 
Mormons, Mill on persecution of, 

XXV, 299-301 
Morning, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 201; 
Gray on, xxxix, 290; Milton on, 
iv, 38, 173 
Moro, Raffaello del, xxxi, 92, 100-2, 

190-1 
Morone, Macaulay on, xxvii, 409 
Morpheus, reference to, iv, 35 
Morphology, Darwin on, xi, 472-7 
Morrell, Sir Charles, xl, loi 
Morris, Auld Rob, vi, 473 
Morris, Captain, i, 158 
Morris, Gov., and Franklin, i, 132-3, 
152; love of dispute, 131-2; quar- 
rel with Assembly, 133, 144; re- 
tirement of, 133, 152 
Morris, James, i, 112, 113 
Morris, William, Poems by, xlii, 
1230-45; Prologue to Niblungs 
AND VoLsuNGS, xlix, 272-3; trans- 
lator of songs from the Edda, 
384; translator of Voi^sunga Saga^ 
265 
Morshead, E. D. A., translator ot 

House of Atreus, viii, i 
Morsimus, reference to, viii, 423 
Mortality (see Death) 
Morte d'Arthur, favorite in old 
England, xxxix, 237-, Holy Grail, 
story of, from Malory's, xxxv, 



108-226; Prologue to Malory's, 
xxxix, 21-5 
Morte d'Arthur, Tennyson's, xlii, 

1019-26 
Mortification, Ruskin on, xxviii, 97 
Mortimer, the elder, in Edward II, 
xlvi, 7-9, 11-13, 14-16, 19-25, 31 
Mortimer, the younger, in Edward 
II, ^ in opposition to Gaveston, 
xlvi, 7-9, 11-13, 14-16; consents 
to his return, 19-22; made Mar- 
shal, 23-4; on Gaveston, 25; at 
Gaveston's return, 28-31; quarrel 
with king, 31-3; Edward on, 34-5; 
in attack on Tynemouth, 36, 37-8; 
at capture of Gaveston, 39-42; in 
battle, 49; captured, 50-1; escapes 
to France, 52, 53-5; his return in 
arms, 57, 59-60; the Queen and, 
58, 61, 64; his triumph, 68-9; 
plots king's death, 69-70; with 
Kent, 70-1; new plots against 
king, 74-5; made Protector, 75-6; 
puts Kent to death, 76-7 ; sus- 
pected of king's death, 81; con- 
demned to death, 82-3; Edward 
Third on, 84 
Morton, Bishop of Durham, rela- 
tions with Dr. Donne, xv, 334; 
Walton on, 334 
Morton, Cardinal, xxxvi, 94 
Morton, John, More on, xxxvi, 150-1 
Mosca degli Uberti, in Hell, xx, 27- 

8, 119-20 
Mosca, II, xxxi, 438 note 
Moschino, II, xxxi, 438 note 
Moses, Browning on, xlii, 1142-3; 
Bunyan on, xv, 75, 136; on clean 
beasts, 85; in Dante's Paradise, 
xx, 423- on his own death, iii, 
294 (29); Defoe on, xxvii, 15^; 
Jesus and, xliv, 384 (30) ; Jesus 
on, xlvii, 277 {72>2)\ learning of, 
iii, 209; Lessing on, xxxii, 200; 
Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 20-1, 22^ 
87; meekness of, xv, 345; Milton 
on, iv, 90, 350-1, 353; on miracles, 
xlviii, 284 (803); Mohammed on, 
xlv, 898, 9i3-i5» 922, 924, 932, 
944» 979, 996, 997, 1006 note 32, 
I on; More on law of, xxxvi, 159; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 193-4, 205, 207, 
211 {622, 624), 213 (629, 631), 
222, (657), 235 (690), 236, 242, 
248 (714), 266 (741), 269 (752), 
274 (774); Paul, St., on, xlv, 530 
(13); prayers of, vii, 315 (2); 
his prophecy of Christ, xliv, 290 
(826), 435 (22-3); the Psalmist 
on, 272 (6-8), 281 (26), 283 (16, 
23), 284 (32); Psalms attributed 
to, 146, 262-4; on resurrection, 
414 (37-8) ; Stephen on, 443 (20- 
40); taken from Limbo, xx, 18; 
wish of, iii, 236 
Moses, in School for Scandal, xviii, 
139-41, 146-7, i50-57> 160-1 



324 



GENERAL INDEX 



Mosquitoes and Fox, fable of, xvii, 

Mosquitos, Drake on, xxxiii, 155 
Mother, I Cannot Mind My 

Wheel, xli, 925 
Mother, To My, by Poe, xlii, 1286-7 
Mother H0LI.E, story of, xvii, iii- 

14 

Mother's Lament, A, vi, 333 

Mother's Picture, On His, by 
Cowper, xli, 556-9 

Motherhood, Holmes on, xxxviii, 
264-5 

Mothers (see Parents) 

Motherwell, Song of the Cavauer, 
xxviii, 404 

Motion, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 222-3, 
224-6, 252, 282; first law of na- 
ture, V, 239, 241-2; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 435-7; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
254-5, 257-8 

Motives, and actions, xxxvii, 373-81, 
383 note, 386-7; James Mill on, 
XXV, 37; Ruskin on human, xxviii, 
96-8 

Motte, Andrew, translator of New- 
ton, xxxix, 2 

Motto to Burns's First Book, vi, 
232 

Moulds, bacteria and, xxxviii, 359; 
Pasteur on, 310, 312, 313 and note 

Mounier, on October Sixth, xxiv, 
222 note 

Mountain-chains, formation of, xxix, 
330-1; Geikie on, xxx, 353-4 

Mountain Daisy, To a, vi, 201-3 

Mountain of the Congregation, iv, 

203 ^ . 

Mountam-torrents, Darwin on, xxix, 
335-6, ^ , 

Mountains, as barriers of species, 
xxix, 346; difficulty of judging 
distances on, 345; Helmholtz on 
low temperature of, xxx, 222-3; 
resemblance of species of, xi, 411-14 

Mountains in Labor, fable of, xvii, 
16 

Mountjoy, Lord, Harrison on, xxxv, 
336 note 

Mourning, in ancient Egypt, xxxiii, 
42; Bacon on, iii, 9; Byron on, 
xli, 810; Confucius on, xliv, 12 
(26), 62 (21), 67 (17); Dekker 
on, xlvii, 486; Ecclesiastes on, 
xliv, 347 (2, 4) ; Ennius on, ix, 
73; Hamlet on, xlvi, 95; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 343, 344; Rossetti,C. G., 
on, xlii, 1228, 1229; Shakespeare 
on, xl, 281-2; Tzu-yu on, xliv, (i^ 

(14) 

Mourning, Valediction Forbid- 
ding, xl, 312-13 

Mouse, To a, vi, 125-6; remarks on, 

17 
Mouse and Lion, fable of, xvii, 14 
Mouse, The Town, and the Coun- 
try Mouse, xvii, 12 



Movement, definitions of, xlviii, 434 
Moving Pictures, in New Atlantis, 

iii, 188 
Mowis, tale of the, xlii, 1403 
Mozzi, Andrea de', xx, 66 and note 5 
Mozzi, Rocco di, xx, 59 note 
Mucalinda, xlv, 641-2 
Much, the miller s son, in adven- 
ture with knight, xl, 131, 132, 138, 
139, 140; with monks, 157, 158, 
159; at archery contest, 168, 169 
Much-afraid, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 177; daughter of Dispondency, 
291-2, 294; parts with Christiana, 
316; death of, 318-19 
Mucianus, Tacitus on, iii, 135; on 

Vitellius, 18, 148 
Mucii, Plutarch on the, xii, 226 
Muck-rake, man with, in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 205 
Muggins, Dick, in She Stoops to 

Conquer, xviii, 205, 210 
Muhagerin, xlv, 961 note 14 
MuiR, William, Epitaph on, vi, 

53 
Muirkirk, John Shepherd, Burns on, 

vi, 374 
Mulciber, his fall from Heaven, iv, 
109; architect of Pandemonium, 
108 (see also Vulcan) 
Mule, Darwin on the, xxix, 334 
Mule, The Sheykh and the, xvi, 

26-7 
Muley, Hameda, xiv, 406 
Mulius, Homer on, xxii, 266 
Miiller, Fritz, on air-breathing crus- 
taceans, xi, 201-2; on classifica- 
tion, 456; on crustaceans, 295; 
on dimorphism, 61 ; on larval stage, 
486; on twining plants, 253 
Miiller, John, Browne on, iii, 278 

(note) 
Miiller, Max, quoted, xxviii, 249 
Multiple Organs, variable, xi, 160 
Multitudes effect of shouting of, 

xxiv, T2-1 
Multrie, Rev. John, Burns on, vi, 

Mummius, at Corinth, xiii, 240 
Mun, Mr., book of, x, 331; on 

foreign trade, 328 
Munatius, and Cicero, xii, 246 
Munday, Anthony, Beauty Bath- 
ing, xl, 203-4 
Munificence, proverb on, xvi, 211 
Munremar, son of Gerrchenn, xlix, 

239-40 

Mural t, M. de, xxxiv, 139 

Murder, Chaucer on, xl, 41; in 

Massachusetts law, xliii, 84-5; 

Mohammed on, xlv, 927, 990; 

punishment of, in old England, 

xxxv, 383, 384; Shakespeare on, 

xlvi, 132; Webster on, xlvii, 790 

Murderers, in Dante's Hell, xx, 47, 

53 



GENERAL INDEX 



335 



Murena Licinius, defence of, xii, 

270; trial of, 255 
Muret, Mark Antony, xxxii, 68 
Murillo, Hugo on, xxxix, 369 
Murmuring, Penn on, i, 342 
Murranus, death of, xiii, 413, 417 
Murray, Bonny Earl of, xl, 109 
Murray, Miss Euphemia, Lines on, 

vi, 301-2 
Murray, Gilbert, translator of Eurip- 
ides, viii, I 
Musa, Arab general, xvi, 312 note 3 
in story of City of Brass, 312- 

339 

Musccus, Aristophanes on, viii, 451; 
Marlowe on, xix, 204; Milton on, 
iv, S7; Sidney on, xxvii, 8; Soc- 
rates on, ii, 28; in Virgil's Hades, 
xiii, 234 
Musaget, in Faust, xix, 180 
Muses, Aristophanes on the, viii, 
445; De Quincey on the, xxvii, 
337; Milton on the, iv, 36, 74 
Mushroom, Emerson on the, v, 60 
Mushtari, reference to, xli, 983 
Music, beauty in, xxiv, 105; Browne 
on, iii, 338; Browning on, xiii, 
1 1 14, 1146; Coleridge on, xxvii, 
269, 276; Collins on, xli, 491; 
Confucius on, xliv, 12 {23), 26 
(8), 43 (3); Dorian, Milton on, 
iv, 104; Dry den on power of, xl, 
399, 400; Herbert on, xv, 384; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 377; instru- 
mental, power of, xxiv, 54; Locke 
on study of, xxxvii, 182; Mill on 
effects of, XXV, 95 ; Mill on limita- 
tions of, 96; Milton on, iv, 41, 
45; as recreation, iii, 257; the 
passions and, xli, 488-91 ; Poe on, 
xxviii, 389, 390; Ruskin on best, 
xxviii, 157; Schiller on, xxxii, 
285-6 
Music, For, by Byron, xli, 808-9 
Music, The Power of, xl, 400-6 
Music, When Soft Voices Die, xli, 

878 
Musical Instrument, a, xli, 948-9 
Musical Notes, rates of vibration of, 

xxx, 264-6 
Musicians, Browning on, xiii, 1147 
Musing, a deadly happiness, viii, 

304 
Mussato, Albertino, xx, 53 note 8 
Mussels, no heart in, xxxviii, 137 
Musset, De, Taine on, xxxix, 435 
Mustapha, and Roxalana, iii, 53 
Mustard-seed, parable of the, xliv, 

397 (18-19) 
Mutilations, inheritance of, xi, 148 
Mutual Aid Societies, ancient, ix, 

424 note 2 
My Bonie Bell, vi, 442 
My Bonie Mary, vi, 336 
My Collier Laddie, vi, 460-1 
My Dear and Only Love, xl, 368-9 



My Eppie Adair, vi, 369 

My Eppie Macnab, vi, 439 

My Faith Looks Up to Thee, xlv. 

My Father was a Farmer, vi, 39- 

My Girl She's Airy, vi, 62 

My Heart Leaps Up, xli, 615 

My Heart's in the Highlands, vi, 

384 
My Highland Lassie, O, vi, 211-12 
My Hoggie, vi, 314 
My Last Duchess, xiii, 11 15 
My Lord A-Hunting, vi, 275-6 
My Love in Her Attire, xl, 334 
My Love, She's but a Lassie Yet, 

vi, 365 
My Mother Bids Me Bind My 

Hair, xli, 594-5 
My Nanie O, vi, 49-50 
My Nanie's Awa, vi, 544 
My Native Land Sae Far Awa, 

vi, 457 
My Peggy's Charms, vi, 304-5 
My Spouse Nancy, vi, 507-8 
My Tocher's the Jewel, vi, 440 
My Wife's a Winsome Wee Thing, 

vi, 472 
Mycene, reference to, xxii, 25 
Mykerinos, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 66- 

68 
Mylodon, Darwin on the, xxix, 96 
Myopotamus, Darwin on the, xxix, 

305 
Myris, in All for Love, xviii, 22-3 
Myrmex, Aristophanes on, viii, 465-6 
Myrmidons, return of, from Troy, 

xxii 39 
Myrrha, in Dante*s Hell, xx, 126 
Myrtle, David on the, xli, 506 
Myrto, granddaughter of Aristides, 

xii, 108 
Mysteries, Egyptian, xxxiii, 86-7; 

in religion, Browne on, iii, 2^2 

(9) 273 (10) 
Mystery, Carlyle on, xxv, 347-8; 

many shapes of, viii, 415 
Mysticism, Emerson on, v, 184-5 
Mystics, songs of, in The Frogs, 

viii, 429-32 
Mythology, Celtic, xxxii, 160-2; Des- 
cartes on study of, xxxiv, 7, 8; 

Renan on Classical, xxxii, 167; 

Taine on, xxxix; 434; Thoreau 

on, xxviii, 427 
Myths, law of compensation in, v, 

96; remarks of, xvii, i 
Naaman, the Syrian, xliv, 369 (27) 
Nabal, Winthrop on, xliii, 99 
Nabis, Prince of Sparta, xxxvi, 36, 

63 
Nachoran, Abraham's son, iii, 176 
Nacien, the hermit, xxxv, 116, 1191 

125, 159, 166, 167-70, 194-5 
Nadab, Browning on, xiii, 1143 
Naegling, the sword, xlix, 81 



326 



GENERAL INDEX 



Naething, Stanzas on, vi, 233-4 
Naevius, Roman poet, iii, 205; 

quoted, ix, 53; old age of, 64 
Naga, the Great, xlv, 749 
Nageli, on plants, xi, 222 
Naharvalians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

120 
Naiads, Homer on the, xxii, 183; 

Milton on the, iv, 53 
Nails, as money in Scotland, x, 30; 

making of, 13 
Naimes, Duke, xlix, 104-5, 120, 124, 

126, 163, 164, 185, 186, 191, 193 
Nain, widow of, xliv, 376 (12-15) 
Nairne, Lady, poems by, xli, 573- 

80 
Name, good, a precious ointment, 

iii, 5 
Names, among the Bornoos, v, 208; 
Epictetus on, ii, 172 (154); Goethe 
on, xix, 53; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
337-43; independence of, v, 132; 
Thoreau on, xxviii, 429-30 
Namur, William of, xxxv, 10^ 
Nan Jung, Confucius on, xliv, 14 

(I), 34 (5) 
Nan-kung Kuo, xhv, 47 (6) 
Nantucket, Praying Indians of, xliii, 
149; Woolman's description of, i, 
256-8 
Nan-tzu, xliv, 21 (26), 23 note 3 
Naphtha, Browne on, iii, 284 
Naples, betrayed by Ferdinand, 
xxxix, 89; conquest of, xxxvi, 14, 
15, 28; described by Marlowe, 
xix, 22Z\ in 1 6th century, xxvii, 
411; Machiavelli on kingdom of, 
xxxvi, 7; papal authority in, 310- 
11; power of, before French inva- 
sion, 40; reasons of fall of, 82 
Naples, Stanzas written near, by 

Shelley, xli, 848-9 
Napoleon, aristocracy courted by, v, 
212; art of war of, 356; Bagehot 
on, xxviii, 206; Carlyle on, xxv, 
338, 422-3; on charlatanism, xxviii, 
66; compared with Milton's Satan, 
206; Emerson on, v, 275; Empire 
of, 390; English hated by, 389-90; 
etiquette of, 216; on French Revo- 
lution, xxviii, 482; on the heaviest 
battalions, y, 371; Hugo on, xxxix, 
397; Louisiana sold bj^, xliii, 267 
note; Mazzini on, xxxii, 404, 412; 
method of, v, 86; at the pest 
house, 300-1 ; the royal armies 
and, 102; on sublime and ridicu- 
lous, xxxix, 375; the wounded offi- 
cer and, xxv, 350 
Napoleon III, Mill on, xxv, 153 
Nar, the squinter, xlix, 258 
Narahs, evil genii, xvi, 9 note 
Naraka, xlv, 871, 872 
Narcissus, cunning of, iii, 61; Dante 
on, XX, 295 note 2; Milton on, 
iv, 52; Shelley on, xli, 883 
Nardi, Jacopo, xxxi, 157 note 5 



Nariscans, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

119 
Narrative Poetry, forms of, xxxix, 

313 
Narrowness, of mind, Confucius on, 

xliv, 58 (9) 
Narses, Bacon on, iii, 24 
Narvaez, Roderick, and the Moor, 

xiv, 47 
Nasagena, and Milinda, xlv, 668-72, 

693-7 
Nashe, Thomas, poems by, xl, 265- 

267 
Nashope, Indian town, xliii, 153-4 
Nasidius, reference to, xx, 106 
Naso, banished by Augustus, iii, 

205; Dante on, xx, 19 
Nasomonians, Herodotus on the, 

xxxiii, 19-20 
Nassaro, Matteo del, xxxi, 318 note 
Nathan, and David, xliv, 209; Lu- 
ther _ on, xxxvi, 347; Sidney on, 
xxvii, 27 
Natick, Eliot on, xliii, 151 
National Antipathies, Browne on, 
iii, 330; Pascal on, xlviii, 104, 
105; Washington on, xliii, 261-2 
National Armies, Machiavelli on 

need of, xxxvi, 50 
National Banks, Marshall on, xliii, 
223-4, 226-30, 238-40 (see also 
United States Bank) ^ 
National Debt, congressional right to 
contract a, xliii, 196 (2); validity 
of, 211; Washington on, 260-1 
National Debts, Smith on, x, 574-90 
National Property, regulation of, 

xliii, 197 (17) 
National Wealth, Bacon on sources 

and distribution of, iii, 41-2 
Nationality, Freeman on sentiment 

of, xxviii, 239-40 
Nations, amorousness of different, 
xlviii, 426; as determined by lan- 
guage, xxviii, 261-82; origin of, 
254-58; Pascal on division of world 
into, xlviii, 104-5; Rousseau on 
division of mankind into, xxxiv, 
218; Rousseau on origin of, 207; 
splendor of, how judged, v, 452; 
Taine on differences of, xxxix, 
446-56; Washington on relations 
with foreign, xliii, 261-5; Wool- 
man on prosperity of, i, 240-1 (see 
also Races) 
Nations, Wealth of, Smith's, x 
Nativity^ Hymn on the, iv, 7-15 
Naturae Encheiresis, xix, 74 
Natural, and artificial, xxv, 344; 

definition of word, xi, i 
Natural History, Bacon on, xxxix, 
143-6; Darwin's theory, its effect 
on, xi, 524-6; defined by Hobbes, 
xxxiv, 373 
Natural Laws, Descartes^ on, xxxiv, 
36-7; suppose an Intelligent Agent, 
xi, i; Whewell on, i 



GENERAL INDEX 



327 



Natural Liberty, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
407 (see also Natural State) 

Natural Objects, Burke on effects of, 
xxiv, 136 

Natural Philosophy, Bacon on study 
of, iii, 129; Berkeley on, xxxvii, 
296-7; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 376; 
Hume on limits of, xxxvii, 329, 
355, 444; Huxley on study of, 
xxviii, 230; Kant on, xxxii, 317, 
318; Locke on, xxxvii, 174-8; Mil- 
ton on study of, iii, 253; Newton 
on, xxxix, 158-9; Socrates on, ii, 
5. 90 

Natural Price, defined, x, 58-9; mar- 
ket price tends to equal, 61-2; 
tends to minimum, 65 

Natural Principles, Pascal on, xlviii, 
40 (92), 41 (94) 

Natural Rectitude, Bentham on term, 
XXV, 46 ^ ^ 

Natural Religion (see Religion) 

Natural Rights, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
407-8, 417-29 

Natural Science, Bacon on, xxxix, 
135; Helmholtz on, xxx, 181-3 

Natural Selection, xi, 93-144; Aris- 
totle's idea of, 9 note; difficulties 
of theory, 178-261, 289-95, 312-14, 
333-4; meaning of, TT, progress of 
idea of, 11-24; recapitulation of 
theory, 499-529; theory of, briefly 
stated, 23 

Natural State, advancement of man 
from, xxxii, 301, 309-10; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 402-6; Pope on the, xl, 
437; Rousseau on man in, xxxiv, 
168,^ 171-200, 208-9; Schiller on, 
xxxii, 291-3 

Natural Style, Pascal on, xlviii, 16 

<^9) . . 
Naturalization, Bacon ^ on, iii, 80; 
Freeman^ on, xxviii, 256-7; of 
plants, xi, 125; under control of 
Congress, xliii, 196 (4) ; of words, 
Johnson on, xxxix, 198 
Naturalness, Locke on, xxxvii, 48, 49 
Nature, adaptations in, xi, ^^'j^ 90- 
i; art and, xxvii, 12; art and, 
Confucius on, xliv, 20 (16), 30 
(8) ; art and, Goethe on, xxx^x, 
268-71, 274; art and, Hugo on, 
385-6; art and, Whitman on, 424; 
Bacon on observation of, 148; 
Bacon on interpretation of, 139- 
46, 150-3; Berkeley on beauties 
of, xxxvii, 244-5; Berkeley on laws 
of, 2(iT\ Browne on, iii, 275 (12), 
279 (16), 278 (15), 280; Browne 
on study of, 276-7^ 278-80; Bryant 
on, xlii, 1262; Burke on study of, 
xxiv, 7-8; Burns on, vi, 72, 94, 
338-9* 537. 539; Channing on study 
or, xxviii, 339-40; Channing on 
unity of, 335-6; Cicero on accord- 
ance with, ix, 72\ Cicero on re- 
bellion against, 47; Coleridge on 



wisdom in, xxvii, 273; complexity 
of, xi, 85-92; contemners of, in 
Dante's Hell, xx, 47, 63-6; Dar- 
win on, xi, 95, 213-15, 219; Des- 
cartes's method of studying, xxxiv, 
51-3; economy of, xi, 159-60; edu- 
cation by, V, 7-8, 63, 200-1; xxviii, 
158-9; Emerson on, v, 25, 26-7, 56, 
93-4» 106-7, 174. 178, I79» 197-8, 
200, 201, 250, 285, 312; xlii, 1301, 
1304, 1309; Epictetus on, ii, 164 
(130);^ God and, St. Augustine 
on, vii, 1 71-2; God and, Hume 
on, xxxvii, 419-28; God and, Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 82 (229), 90-1, 140 
(428), 194 (580), 330; (iod and, 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 109, 11 4-16; 
God and, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 260- 
I ; God and, Tennyson on, xlii, 
1038-9J Goethe on study of, xxxix, 
264; (joethe on unity of, xix, 24; 
Goldsmith on gifts of, xli, 534; 
Hindu doctrine of, xlv, 862 ; Hume 
on knowledge of, xxxvii, Zzy-^, 
330-1; Hunt on love of, xxvii, 
308; institutions influenced by, v, 
352; interdependence of, xxx, 176; 
lessons of, xlii, 1293-4; living ac- 
cording to, ii, 256 (74), 278 (2); 
xxxvi, 208, 209; Locke on works 
of, xxxvii, 174, 177; Lyell on laws 
of, xxxviii, 406; Marcus Aurelius 
on study of, ii, 206 (2) ; Milton 
on gifts of, iv, 65-7; Milton on 
unity and degrees of, 195; "never 
betrayed the heart that loved her," 
xli, 653; Newton on phenomena of. 
xxxix, 158-9; **non facit saltum, 
xi, 205-6, 217; offences against, 
vii, 41-2; opposition in, ii, 60-1; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 25-7, 40 (91), 4p 
(119-21); Penn on life next to, 1, 
359; Penn on study of, 337 (3)* 
338-9; pleasure the plan of, xli, 
659; Pope on, xl, 425, 433-4. 436, 
444; proverb on, v, 95; Raleigh 
on, xxxix, 1 14-16; Ruskin on our 
carelessness of, xxviii, 123-4; Shel- 
ley on love of, xli, 848; Thoreau 
on attractions and benefits of, 
xxviii, 407-38; Whitman on life 
with, xlii, 1494; "will out," xvii, 
44; Wordsworth on love of, xli, 
614-15, 652-3, 694 

Nature, Essay on, Emerson s, v, 
233-48 

Nature, Goodness of, essay on, iii, 
34-6 

Nature, Hymn to the Spirit of. 
xli, 864 

Nature in Men, Bacon's essay, iii, 
101-3 

Nature, The Influences of, xH, 
622-9 

Nature and the Poet, xli, 620-2 

Nature's Law: A Poem, vi, 236-8 

Naturlangsamkeit, v, 114 



328 



GENERAL INDEX 



Naucratis, city of, xxxiii. 90 
Naudin, M., on origin 01 species, xi, 

16-17; on reversion, 328 
Naunton, Sir Robert, xv, 385 
Nausicaa, daughter of Alcinous, xxii, 

85-93; farewell to Ulysses, 116; 

Ruskin on, xxviii, 146 
Nausithons, son of Poseidon, xxii, 

95; reference to, 85 
Nautes, in the ^neid, xiii, 205-6 
Navagero, Bernardo, quoted, xxviii, 

468-9 
Navarre, King of, at Hesdin, xxxviii, 

22; at Rouen, 49-50 
Navidad, city of, xliii, 26 
Navigation, ancient, iii, 165, 168; 

Emerson on, v, 352; Hobbes on, 

xxxiv, ziTi power of, necessary to 

civilization, x, 26-8 
Navigation Act of Great Britain, x, 

359-61 . , ^ 

Navy, Harrison on need of a, xxxv, 

379 
Navy, United States commander-in- 
chief of, xliii, 201 (i); under the 
Confederation, 171, 174, 175; un- 
der Constitution, 197 (13, 14) 
Naxos, famed for vintage, xiii, 135 
Naylor, James, Woolman on, i, 305; 

worshipped as Christ, v, 243 
Neaera, and Helios, xxii, 172; refer- 
ence to, iv, 76 
Nealces, Virgil on, xiii, 353 
Neale, Dr., Dean of Westminster, 

XV, 379 
Neale, J. M., translator of hymns, 

xlv, 554, 555» 556, 560 
Nearchus, in roLYEucTE, urges Poly- 
eucte to be baptised, xxvi, 71-4; 
persuaded to go to temple with 
Polyeucte, 88-90; blamed by Pau- 
line, 93; doomed by Felix, 95; 
his death, 98 
Nearchus of Tarentum, ix, 60 
Nearer, My God, To Thee, xlv, 582 
Nebaioth, in the Wilderness, iv, 383 
Nebridius, friend of St. Augustine, 
vii, 50, 95, 104, 13 1-2; conversion 
of, 147; on divination, 108 
Nebuchadnezzar, Bunyan on, xv, 
loi; Daniel and, xx, 299 note i; 
dream of, xlviii, 249-50; image of, 
iii, 14; the Jews and, xlviii, 217; 
reference to, xlv, 925 note 
Nebulae, composition of, xxx, 328 
Necessaries, of life, defined, x, 541; 
Kempis on, vii, 302 (4) ; Shake- 
speare on, xlvi, 247; taxes on, x, 
542, 544-7» 572-3 (see also Food- 
Supply) 
Necessary, Marshall on word, xliii, 

232 
Necessary Connection, Idea of, 

xxxvii, 355-70, 373 
Necessity, Burns on, vi, 388; Chau- 
cer on, xl, 46; Dante on, xx, 212; 
defined by Kant, xxxii, 377, 386; 



foreknowledge not, xx, 359 note 
7; Goethe on, xix, 391; Hume on 
doctrine of, xxxvii, 371-91; makes 
vile things precious, xlvi, 252; 
Mill on doctrine of, xxy, iio-ii; 
Pascal on belief in, xlviii, 40 (91), 
83 (233); Sophocles on, viii, 2'jt\ 
the spur of knowledge, xxxiv, 
181-2; the tyrant's plea, iv, 167 

Necker, M., on assignats, xxiv, 389; 
Burke on, 353-4; on French 
finances, 266; on population of 
France, 276; on wealth of France, 
277-8 

Necos, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 81-2 

Necromancy, Cellini on, xx>i, 133-6, 
142; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 397 

Neglect, excuses for, ii, 195 (12); 
a way of dishonoring, xxxiv, 378 

Negotiating, Essay on. Bacons, 
iii, 123-4 

Negus, empire of, iv, 332 

Nehemiah, and the Sabbath-break- 
ers, xliii, 99-100, 100 

Neidpath, The Maid of, by Camp- 
bell, xli, 796 

Neidpath, The Maid of, by Scott, 
xli, 761-2 

Neidpath Castle, Lines Com- 
posed AT, xli, 695 

Neighbors, Confucius on love of, 
xliv, 46 (24) ; Jesus on, 388 (29- 

Neleus, birth of, xxii, 158; Chloris 
and, 159; Homer on, 45; Melam- 
pus and, 214 
Nelson, in the Baltic, v, 372; xli, 
798-9; courage of his sailors, v, 
396; death of, 362; Emerson on. 
380; expecting duty, 401; feat or 
doubling, 372; at Trafalgar, 431; 
want of fortune, 408 
Nemesianus, on hounds, xxxv, 370 
Nemesis, Emerson on doctrine of, v, 
97; Herodotus's belief in, xxxiii, 
4; in Manfred, xviii, 425-6, 428- 
9; Pliny on, ix, 285 note 
Nemetes, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, iii 
Nemglan, and Conaire, xlix, 215^^^ 
Nemours, Due de, at Metz, xxxviii, 

24 
Nennius, on Arthur, xxxii, 162-3 
Neocles, father of Themistocles, 

xii, 5 
Neo-Druidism, xxxii, 176 
Neoptolemus, and Lycomedes, ix, 34 
Neoptolemus, son of Achilles (see 

Pyrrhus) 
Nepenthes, reference to, iv, 64 
Nephelogetes, and Alaopolitanes, 

xxxvi, 229 
Nepoios, Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 

361-2 
Nepos, Licinius, Pliny on, ix, 271 
Nepos, Metellus, Cicero on, xii, 247-8 
Nepos, friend of Pliny, ix, 22Zt 253 



GENERAL INDEX 



329 



Nepos, the praetor, decree of, ix, 

290-1 
Nepos, Proconsul of Spain, and 

Caesar, xii, 293 
Neptune, in the ^neid, xiii, 79-81, 

208-9; Milton on, iv, 22^ 47, 69; 

in sack of Troy, xiii, 124 
Neptune, the planet, discovery of, 

XXX, 22 

Nereids, reference to the, xiii, 81 
Nereus, references to, iv, 68, 69; 

xiii, 117 
Neri, beginning of party, xx, 135 
note 4; faction in Florence, 2^ 
note 3, 103-4 and notes 
Neri, St. Philip, and the nun, v, 

298 
Nerius, Cn., informer, ix, 102 
Nero, Drusus, ix, 242 note 2 
Nero, Emperor, Apollonius on, iii, 
51; Carlyle on death of, v, 334; 
Demetrius and, ii, 132 (45); de- 
scent of, xii, 403; harp of, iii, 51; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 212 (16); 
Pliny on reign of, ix, 335, 336- 
7; as a poet, xviii, 15-16; Rome 
turned by, xl, 49; Spintrian rec- 
reations of, iii, 335 
Nero, Francesco del, xxxi, 113 note 2 
Nero, Tiberius, and Gabinius, ix, 120 
Nerva, edict of, ix, 410; Pliny on, 
221, 331; Trajan and, 374 note 2 
N^ervians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, iii 
Nervii, Caesar's campaign against the, 

xii, 292 
N^esle, Castle of, xxxi, 341 note 2 
Nessus, Dante on, xx, 52 and note 
Nestor, Achilles and, xxii, 332; birth 
of, 159; Cicero on, ix, 56-7; in 
the Odyssey, xxii, 35-47 
N^etherlands, Bacon on government 
of, iii, 37; Browne on success of 
the, 281-2; under Charles V, xix, 
246; manufactures of the, iii, 42; 
under Margaret of Parma, xix, 
251-2; periodic returns in, iii, 144; 
Philip II and the, xxxix, 91-3; 
revolt of the. Mill on, xxv, 1 1 
S^ethersole, Sir Francis, xv, 385 
STeufville, Nicholas de, xxxi, 293 

note 
^euri, Herodotus on the, xlix, 287 

note 
I^euter Insects, Darwin on, xl, 290- 
5; sterility of, how developed, 

Neutrality, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 
76-78; Pascal on, xlviil, 315(899); 
Penn on, i, 374-5; Washington on 
policy of, xliii, 263-4, 265-6 

Never the Time and the Place, 
xiii, 1 1 54 

Severs, Duke of, and Mantua, xxi, 

81, 454-5. 487^ ^^ ^ 

Slevil, Dr., and George Herbert, xv, 

379, 384 
Nevill, Sir Robert, xxxv, 23 



Neville, Constance, in She Stoops 
TO Conquer, with Kate Hard- 
castle, xviii, 208-9; with Hastings 
at Hardcastle's, 222-3 \ carries on 

i'oke with Mario w, 224; with Tony 
^umpkin, 228, 229-30; Tony's de- 
scription of, 231; tries to get her 
jewels, 235-7; plans to elope, 243; 
with Tony in elopement plot, 250- 
i; Tony's letter and, 252-3; de- 
nounces Tony, 254; ordered to 
aunt's by Mrs. Hardcastle, 253, 
255-6; refuses to elope, 264; wins 
consent to marry Hastings, 268-9 

New Academy, xii, 22^ note 

New Albion, Drake's, xxxiii, 222-^ 

New Atlantis, Bacon's, iii, 153-91; 
editorial remarks on, 152; 1, 48 

New Atlantis, acoustics in, iii, 187; 
air and water machines, 188; an- 
cient commerce of, 165-6, 168-9; 
ancient expeditions against, 166-7; 
arrival at, 153-7; Christianity in, 
161-3; dress in, 155, 159, 174, 
179-80, 181; Feast of Family in, 
172-6; food in, 158, 185; health, 
care of, in, 156, 183; instruments 
of warfare in, 188; Jews in, 176; 
jugglery in, 188-9; machines and 
engines in, 188; manufactures in, 
186; marriage in, 177-9; medicine 
in, 185-6; mineralogy in, 187; 
optics in, 186-7; production of 
heat in, 186; production of odors 
and tastes, 187-8; scientific ex- 
peditions from, 171; self-suffi- 
ciency of, 168-9; Solomon's House 
in, 170 (see further Solomon's 
House) ; Stranger's House in, 
157-8; treatment of visitors in, 
159-60, 169-70; why unknown, 
164 et seq. 

New-Born Child, On Parent 
Knees a, xii, 593 

New Caledonia, barrcer-reef of, 
xxix, 499, 503 

New England, historical documents 
of early, xliii, 62-112, 147-56 

New England Courant, i, 3, 20, 21- 
22 

New England Reformers, v, 263-81 

New Forcers of Conscience under 
Long Parliament, iv, 82-3 

Newfoundland, American rights in 
fisheries of, xliii, 188; colonization 
of, xxxiii, 270; description of, 
290-5; exploration of coast, 296-7; 
Hayes on banks of, 284 

Newfoundland, Gilbert's Voyage 
TO, xxxiii, 271-308 

New Jersey, settlement of, i, 288; 
slaves in, 186 note 

New Lights, party of, vi, 16; Burns 
on, 95-6 

New South Wales, Darwin on, xxix, 
457-70 



330 



GENERAL INDEX 



New Testament, selected Books 

FROM, xliv, 355-495» xlv 
New Testament, adversity the bless- 
ing of, iii, 17; corruption of, St. 
Augustine on, vii, 79; Goethe on, 
xix, 49-50; Lessing on the, xxxii, 
209-11; Luther on, xxxvi, 368; 
Mill^ on, XXV, 252; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 218, 225 (666), 266 (740), 
293 (835). 304 (852); Rousseau 
on the, xxxiv, 310-12 (see also 
Gospel) 
New Way to Pay Old Debts, xlvii, 

819-99; remarks on, 818 
New Year's Day, why celebrated, 

XV, 408 
New Year's Day: a Sketch, vi, 

394-6 
New Zealand, Darwin on, xxix, 440- 
54; fauna and flora of, xi, 387; 
ferns in, xxix, 260; as an oceanic 
island, xi, 434; species of, 421, 
432, 441 
New Zealanders, health of the, v, 85 
Newby, Samuel, i, 222 
Newcomb, Simon, sketch of life and 
works, XXX, 324; Extent of the 
Universe, 325-36 
Newlights, American society called, 

i, 215 
Newman, Col., on humble-bees, xi, 

88 
Newman, John Henry, Call of David 
quoted, xxviii, 176; Hymn by, 
xlv, 581; Idea of a Univercity, 
xxviii, 31-62; sketch of life and 
works, 30 
Newport, Magdalen, mother of George 
Herbert, xv, ZT7-'^y 379-83. 389, 
391-2; letter to, 393-5; death, 396 
News. Arabian proverb on, xvi, 167; 
evil and good, iv, 457; suspense 
in, 458 
News, Lassies, News, vi, 580 
Newspapers, American, i, 20; Ben- 
tham on power of, xxvii, 241; 
Carlyle on writing for, xxv, 463; 
Ruskin on, xxviii, loi; Words- 
worth on taxation of, v, 336 
Newton, Sir Isaac, Burke on, xxiv, 
108; Cartesian vortices disproved 
by, xxxiv, 116-17; chronology of, 
129-33; Emerson on, v, 70; gravi- 
tation, universal, discovered by, 
xxxiv, 117-23; on gravitation, v, 
321; XXX, 315-18; xxxvii, 365 
note; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 281-2; the 
heliocentric theory and, xxxix, 55 
note; honors paid him, xxxiv, 155; 
law of conservation and, xxx, 183; 
Leibnitz on, xi, 520; life and 
works, xxxix, 157 note; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 178; mathematical discov- 
eries of, xxxiv, 127-9; optics, dis- 
coveries in, 124-7; Pepys and, 
xxviii, 316; on polarity in na- 
ture, v, 15; Preface to Principia, I 



xxxix, 157-9; remarks on, 1, 45; 
Rousseau on, xxxiv, 256; spec- 
trum discovered by, xxx, 274; on 
tides, 294-5; Unitarianism and, 
xxxiv, 84, 85; Voltaire on, 99, 
110-15; Warden of Mint, 155; 
Wordsworth on theory of, v, 338 

Newton, Gen. John, at Gettysburg, 
xliii, 358, 380, 393; Haskell on, 
382 

Newton, Sir John, xxxv, 66, 67-8, 
69 

New York, Whitman on, xlii, 1495- 
1496 

Nia, the waiter, xlix, 252 

Niata Cattle, xxix, 158-60 

Nibbio, in The Betrothed, xxi, 338 

^341-4, 348-50 

Niblung, son of Hogni, xlix, 374 

Niblungs, names of the, xlix, 270 

NiBLUNGS and Volsungs, story of, 
xlix, :265-38i 

Nicaea, Council of, xxxvi, 286, 304 

Nicagoras, xii, 14 

Nicandra, priestess of Dodona, 
xxxiii, 32 

Nicanor, xliv, 441 (5) 

Nicely, Miss, marriage of, xviii, 119- 
20 

Nicephorius, steward of Q. Cicero, 
ix, 116 

Niceta, on motion of the earth, 
xxxix, 58 

Niceta of Remisiana, Te Deum, xlv, 
558 

Nicety, is depraved modesty, xviii, 
12 

Nicholas, the gift of, xx, 227 note 3 

Nicholas III, in Dante's Hell, xx, 
81-2 

Nicholas, in Two Years Before the 
Mast, xxiii, 148-9 

Nicholas, the barber, in Don Quix- 
ote, xiv, 48, 51-8, 241-9, 291-2, 
316-17 

Nicholas, Harry, xlvii, 634 note 10 

Nichols, Joseph, i, 287 

Nichols, Philip, ^ editor of Drake 
Revived, xxxiii, 127 

Nichomedes, the mastiff of, xxxv, 
373 

Nicias, Alcibiades and, xii, 87, 119- 
22; Cicero on, ix, no; Hyper- 
bolus and, xii, 120; peace of, 121; 
power of, 119; in Sicilian expedi- 
tion, 125, 126, 128, 130 

Nicias, in Mandragola, xxvii, 40^-4 

Nicodemus, the Jew, on Jesus, xlviii, 

285 (808), 292 (829) 
Nicodemus, the Messenian, fickleness 
of, xii, 207-8 

Nicogenes, and Themistocles, xii, 

28-9 
Nicol, William, Epitaph for, vi, 

278 
Nicol Prism, the, xxx, 278 
Nicolaus of Antioch, xliv, 441 (5) 



GENERAL INDEX 



331 



Nicomachus, Aristophanes on, viii, 

465-6 
Nicomedia, aqueduct of, ix, 397-8; 
fire at, 396; lake near, 401, 411- 
12; temple at, 405 
Nicopolis, school of Epictetus at, ii, 

116 
Nicors, xlix, 17 note i, 46 
Nicostratus, Plato on, ii, 21 
Nidau, Earl, at Poitiers, xxxv, 47 
Niepce, discoverer of actinism, 

xxviii, 431 
Nieuwentheit, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 

260 
Niger, name of, xii, 162 
Niger, rival of Severus, xxxvi, 67-8 
Night, Byron on beauties of, xviii, 
439; Carlyle on, xxv, 347; Dry- 
den's description of, xxxix, 340 
note; Habington on, xl, 258; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 133, 135, 173. 184, 
315-16; Mohammed on the, xlv, 
891; patroness of grief, iv, 25 (5); 
Shakespeare on, xl, 282; xlvi, 
149; terrors, why greater at, 
xxiv, 52 
Night, by Blake, xli, 599-601 
Night, To the, by Shelley, xli, 

854-5 
Night, To, by White, xli, 938 
Night, At the Mid Hour of, xli, 

843 
Night, Hymn to the, xlii, 1318-19 
Night-hag, Milton on the, iv, 127 
Nightingale, -^schylus on the, viii, 

46-7; Homer on the, xxii, 281; 

Milton on the, iv, 36, 52, 172, 

241; Swinburne on the, xlii, 1250 
Nightingale and Laborer, fable of, 

xvii, 34 
Nightingale, Ode to a, by Keats, 

xli, 899 
Nightingale, Sonnet to the, Mil- 
ton's, iv, 39-40 
Nightingale, The, by Barnfield, xl, 

290 
Nightingale, The, story of, xvii, 

320-9 
Night-Watchers, Psalm of, xliv, 319 
Nigidius, Publius, friend of Cicero, 

xii, 241-2 
Nigrinus, counsel against Varenus, 

Nihilism, philosophy of, xix, 53; 
philosophical, Buddha, on, xlv, 
681 

Nile, i^schylus on the, viii, 184; 
breezes, why without, xxxiii, 17; 
delta of the, 12; Egypt a gift of 
the, 7, 9-11 ; Egyptian civilization 
due to, X, 27; embankments of, 
made by Min, xxxiii, 49; fish of 
the, 46-7; Lang on the, 347; Mil- 
ton on the, iv, 349; mouths of 
the, xxxiii, 13; overflows of the, 
14, 48; rise of the, cause of, 14- 



16; sacred animals of the, 38; 

sources of the, 17-21 
Nimeguen, Peace of, x, 364 
Nimrod, Burns on, vi, 433; in 

Dante's Hell, xx, 131; the 

mighty hunter, iv, 346; pictured 

in Purgatory, xx, 194 
Nine Worthies, the, xxxix, 21-2 
Ninety-Five Theses, Luther's, 

xxxvi, 261-73; remarks on, 260 
Ninevah, Milton on kingdom of, iv, 

395 
Ning Wu, xliv, 17 note 9 
Nino di Gallura, (see Gallura, Nino 

Ninus, Raleigh on, xxxix, 118 
Niobe, Dante on, xx, 194; daughter 

of Tantalus, viii, 269 
Niphsus, death of, xiii, 346 
Niphates, Satan alights first on, 

iv, 156 
Nirvana, attainment of, xlv, 754-5; 
Buddha on, 736-7; Buddha's pas- 
sage into, 660-1 ; Buddha's search 
for, 592-4; the craving for, 731; 
Hindu doctrine of, 827 
Nisroch, in Paradise Lost, iv, 218 
Nisus, in the ^neid, xiii, 192-4; 
Dante on, xx, 8; Euryalis and, 
xiii, 302-12; Euryalis and, Sidney 
on, xxvii, 20 
Nisus of Dulichmin, xxii, 258 
NiTH, The Banks of, vi, 362 
Nithsdale's Welcome Hame, vi, 

444 
Nitocris, queen of Eg^pt, xxxiii, 49- 

50 
Nitrate of Silver, under voltaic cur- 
rent, xxx, 134 note 
Nitrogen, in air, xxx, 149-50; bin- 
oxide of, 43 note; weight of, 151 
Niuthones, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

118 
No Churchman Am I, vi, 38-9 
No, My Own Love, xli, 926 
Noah, Adam's vision of, iv, 339-45; 
Browne on story of, iii, 287; 
Jesus on days of, xliv, 406 (26-7) ; 
Kempis on, vii, 350 (4); Moham- 
med on, xlv, 916, 925; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 205, 220 (644) ; progeny of, 
iv, 346; taken from Limbo by 
Christ, XX, 18; wife of, xlv, 1007 
Noailles, Count of, Burke on, xxiv, 

440 

Noailles, family of, xxiv, 262 

Nobili, Antonio de', xxxi, 426 note 

Nobility, Bacon on the, iii, 36-7, 

53-4; Browne on the true, 325; 

Burke on a, xxiv, 287; Burns on, 

vi, 547» 557; Goldsmith on, xli, 

522-3; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 375; 

Keppel on a, xxiv, 439-40; Machi- 

avelli on a, xxxvi, 17, 34-6; More 

on, 211; origin of hereditary, 

xxxiv, 226-7; Pascal on, xlviii. 



332 



GENERAL INDEX 



384, 385* 386-8; titles of, for- 
bidden in United States, xliii, 170, 
198 (8, 10); of Vanity Fair, xv, 
100 

Noble, C, on rhododendrons, xi, 303 

Noble Earl's Picture, Verses for 
A, vi, 272-3 

Noble Lord, Letter to a, xxiv, 
399-443 

Noble Nature, The, xl, 298 

Noddy, Darwin on the, xxix, 20 

Nodier, on school of Alexandria, 
xxxix, 385 

Noel, Father, on light, xlviii, 432 
note 

Noemon, son of Phronius, in the 
Odyssey, xxii, 32, 64-5 

No-good, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 10 1 -2 

No-heart, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 220 

Noise, much, little outcome, xvii, 16 

Noisy Polemic, Epitaph on a, vi, 
62 

Nollet, Abbe, theory of electricity, i, 

154-5 
Nombre de Dios, account of expedi- 
tion against, xxxiii, 126-7, 134-46; 
taking of, 235 
Nominalism, Buddha on, xlv, 681 
Nominations, in early Connecticut, 

xliii, 65 
Nomphon, the sachem, xliii, 154 
Non-combatants, agreement with 

Mexico concerning, xliii, 324-5 
Non-conformists, called atheists, iii, 

46 

Non-conformity, of heroism, v, 133; 
of infancy, 65; Mill on, xxv, 148- 
9, 249-52, 2T2-z\ Milton on, iii, 
235-6; Montaigne on, xxxii, 42; 
necessary to manhood, v, 66-7; 
penalty of, 69-70; popular ideas 
of, 79; power of, 197; source of 
sanctity, 200; Whitman on, xxxix, 
419; (see also Individuality) 

Non-existence, Buddha on, xlv, 592, 
677 

Nonianus, and Claudius, ix, 208 

Nonius, story of, xii, 258 

Non-resistance, Emerson on, v, 479 

Nonsuits, in Massachusetts, xliii, 74- 

75 
Noon, Silent, xlii, 1226 
Norcia, Francesco da (see Fusconi) 
Norfolk, 3d Duke of, imprisonment 

of, xxxix, 81; Thomas More and, 

xxxvi, 1 16-17, 122, 125-6, 131 
Norfolk, Dukedom of, v, 421 
Noriego, Senor, xxiii, 247, 404 
Norman Conquest, Vane on the, 

xliii, 129 
Norman Islands, Freeman on, xxviii, 

263-4 
Normanby, Marquis of, dedication 

to, xiii, 5-73 



Normandy, Edward Ill's invasion 
of, XXXV, 6-10, 10-14; Machiavelli 
on, xxxvi, 9-10 

Normandy, Duke of, at Poitiers, 
XXXV, 47 

Normans, eating of the, xxxv, 302; 
Emerson on the, v, 358-9; Renan 
on the, xxxii, 168 

Nornir, northern fates, xlix, 291 
note, 314 

Norris, Mr., speaker of Penn, As- 
sembly, i, 120, 129 

Norris of Bemerton, xxxix, 337 

North, Goethe on the, xix, 69; 
Tennyson on the, xlii, 1005 

North, Lord, Burke and, xxiv, 6; 
Burke on, 408 

North America, Asia formerly united 
to, xxix, 144-5; glacial period in, 
xi, 418; productions of, related 
to European, 416-17, 419; zoology 
of, 143-4, 188; zoology of, changes 
in, xxix, 188; zoology of, com- 
pared with South America, 143-4 

North-east Wind, Ode to the, xlii, 
II 03 

Northampton, Earl of, xxxv, 2^, 26 

Northburgh, Michael of, xxxv, 9 
note, 1 1 note 

Northern Hemisphere, climate of, 
xxix, 265 

Northmen, Charlemagne and the, v, 
355 J government and people, 356-7 

Northumberland, Earl of, xl, 95 
(see Percy) 

Norway, early depopulation of, v, 
358; Freeman on, xxviii, 268 

Nostradamus, reference to, xix, 23 

Notes (see Annotations) 

Nothing, Stanzas on, vi, 233-4 

Not-right, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 277 

Nottingham, Samuel, i, 192 

Nourishment, Pascal on, xlviii, 122 
(356) 

Novello, Alessandro, xx, 323 note 
18 

Novello, Frederic, xx, 168 note 4 

Novello, Guido, xx, 44 note 12 

Novels, Burns on, vi, 61; Fielding 
on, xxxix, 184-90; Ruskin on, 
xxviii, 155-6 

Novelty, Bacon on, iii, 143; human 
thirst for, xxiv, 29-30; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 37; wonder and, xlviii, 40 
(90) 

Novum Organum, Bacon's, iii, 4 

Novum Organum, preface to, 
xxxix, 150-4 

Now Sleeps the Crimson Petal, 
xlii, 1004 

Now Thank We All Our God, 
xlv, 571 

Nowell, Master, xxxv, 400 

Nox NocTi Indicat Scientiam^ xl, 
258-9 



GENERAL INDEX 



333 



Nujna, Bacon on, iii, 69; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 397; intercalary month 
of, xii, 323; on religious proces- 
sions, 176; Virgil on, xiii, 239 
Numa, in the ^neid, xiii, 346 
Numantia, destruction of, xxxvi, 19 
Numanus, death of, xiii, 317-19 
Numbers, in battle, iii, 78; xliii, 
364; effect of, in struggle for ex- 
istence, xi, 84-5; Emerson on our 
respect for, v, 87; grandeur in, 
xxiv, 68; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 338- 
9; Pascal on, xlviii, 435-7; Pro- 
metheus as inventor of, viii, 172 
Kumitor, and Maeon, xiii, 338 
Nun, Chaucer's, xl, 14-15 
Nun's Priest's Tale, xl, 35-51; re- 
marks on, 10; source of, xxxix, 
168 note 

NuR-ED-DiN, STORY OF, xvi, 203-4I 

Nurse and Wolf^ fable of, xvii, 29 

Nurse's Song, xli, 604-5 

Nymph's Song to Hylas, xiii, 1241, 
1242 

Nymph's Passion, A, xl, 300-1 

Nymphs, references to, iv, 13 (20), 
38 

Nyseian Isle, iv, 164 

Oak, Plutarch on the, xii, 154; 
species of, xi, 66-7 

Oateley, Sir Roger, in Shoemaker's 
Holiday, with Lincoln, xlvii, 447- 
9; with Rowland Lacy, 449; with 
Hammon and daughter, 464, 471, 
472-3; with Eyre, 473-4; learns 
Rowland Lacy is in London, 474; 
with Eyre at Old Ford, 479-82; 
finds Hans with Rose, 492; visited 
by Lincoln, 493-4; learns flight of 
Rose, 494; with Firk, 494-6; plans 
to stop wedding, 497; mistakes 
wedding, 502-4; hears daughter 
married, 504; with the king, 511-12 

Oateley, Rose, in Shoemaker's 
Holiday, in love with Rowland 
Lacy, xlvii, 447-8; in the garden, 
her lament, 454-5; with Sybil, 455- 
6; the hunters and, 462-4; Ham- 
mon and, 471-3; with Eyre and 
wife, 481; discovers Rowland as 
Hans, 481-2; with Rowland, as 
Hans, 491-3; her flight, 494; with 
Rowland at Eyre's, 498-9, her mar- 
riage, 504; pardoned by king, 
509; marriage confirmed, 5 11 -12 

Oaths, are but tools to deceive, 
xxvi, iii; Brynhild on, xlix, 325, 
393; continuity of law by, xxvii, 
245-7; Epictetus on, ii, 175 (166); 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 4i6-i;7; Luther 
on sanctity of, xxxvi, 332-3; 
Mohammed on, xlv, 1018; Quaker 
attitude toward, xxxiv, 68-9; shall 
not enforce the wrong, viii, 1^2 

Oaths of Office, Marshall on, xliii, 
233-4 



Oball, son of Conaire, xlix, 237-8 
Obedience, Confucius on, xliv, 7 
(5); is honor, xxxiv, 378; Kempis 
on, vii, 221, 285; Locke on, in 
children, xxxvii, 34-6, 64-6; Mil- 
ton on, of subjects, iv, 2ii;Penn 
on, to parents, i, 355-6; Taine on 
sentiments of, xxxix, 454-5 
Oberon, in Faust, xix, 177 
Obizzo of Este, Dante on, xx, 53 

and note 9, 76 note 2 
Object, and sensation, xxxvii, 227-8 
Objects, two kinds of, xxxvii, 236 
Obligation, defined by Kant, xxxii, 
343» 370; epigram on, xl, 408; 
Franklin on, from favors, i, 102; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 386; Machia- 
velli on, xxxvi, 39; Pliny on, ix, 
209; Woolman on, from gifts, i, 
209 
Oblin, son of Conaire, xlix, 237-8 
Oblivion, Lowell on, xiii, 1465; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 219 (33), 
248 (21) 
Obscenity, Shelley on, xxvii, 358 
Obscurity, brings safety, xvii, 26; 
Confucius on, xliv, 6 (16), 50 
(32); Greene on, xl, 289; Hobbes 
on, why dishonorable, xxxiv, 381 ; 
Hume on, xxxvii, 310; more af- 
fecting than clearness, xxiv, 53-7; 
terror caused by, 52-3 
Observation, Confucius on, xliv, 8 
(18), 24 (27); Goethe on, xxxix, 
265, 269; misuse of, xii, 36; neces- 
sary to poets, xxxix, 312; un- 
honored task of, v, 16 
Obsolete Words, Johnson on, xxxix, 

199, 213-14 
Obstacles, Channing on value of» 
xxviii, 325; Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii, 263 (41), 264 (47) 
Obstinacy, constancy and, iii, 290; 
Epictetus on, in opinion, ii, 124 
(23), 132 (47), 142 (69); Locke 
on, xxxvii, 64, 65, 66, 67, 70, 72', 
Penn on, in opinion, i, 404 (155- 
8) 
Obstinate, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 15-17 
Occam, Newman on, xxviii, 48 
Occasion, Arabian verse on, iii, 59; 

Milton on awaiting, iv, 392-3 
Occupation, Kempis on, vii, 232 (4); 
necessary to happiness, xlviii, 143 
Occupations, Plutarch on mean, xii, 

^37 

Ocean, currents of the, due to wind, 
XXX, 291; Darwin on the, xi, 362; 
xxix, 528-9; Geikie on floor of 
the, XXX, 345-7; organic discolora- 
tion of the, xxix, 25-8; Socrates's 
idea of, ii, 109; a sinking area, 
xxix, 506 

Ocean Nymphs, Chorus of (see 
Prometheus Bound) 

Oceanus, Herodotus on river, xxxiii, 



334 



GENERAL INDEX 



is; Homer on, xxii, 152; Milton 
on, iv, 69 (see also Okeanos) 

Ochre, Widovv^, in Schooi< for 
Scandal, xviii, 129-30 

Ockley, Simon, History of Saracens, 
V, 127 

Ocnus, ally of yEneas, xiii, 333 

Octavia, Antony's wife, xii, 357-8, 
359» 361, 362, 376, 377, 380; chil- 
dren of, 403; Virgil and, xiii, 33 

Octavia, in All for Love, xviii, 
11-12; scene with Antony, 57-61; 
with Cleopatra, 63-4; discovers 
Dolabella with Cleopatra, 72-3; 
tells Antony, 74-5, farewell to 
Antony, 77-8 

Octavius, at Actium, xii, 386; xiii, 
294-5; Actium, triumph after, 
296; Antony and, xii, 263^ 265, 
345-6, 359, 361-2, 378; Antony, 
war with, 380-9, 393, 394-5» 397; 
Caesar's heir, 264; Caesarion killed 
by,_ 399; Cicero and, 263-5, 268; 
xlvi, 25; Cicero on, ix, 186; clem- 
ency to Alexandria, xii, 398; 
Cleopatra and, 392-3, 397, 399. 
400; xviii, 47-8; Dolabella and, 
52; Dryden on, 39-40, 56; Empire 
of, xii, 357; prophecy of his great- 
ness, 263-4; in Rome, 351; in 
second triumvirate, 347-9; in war 
with republicans, 349-50 (see also 
Augustus) 

Octavius, the African, xii, 247 

Octavius, Caius at Caesar's death, xii, 

^330. 

Octavius, Cnaeus, ix, 137-8 

Octavius, Marcus, at Actium, xii, 
386 

October Sixth, Burke on, xxiv, 219- 
29 

Octopus, habits of the, xxix, 17-18 

Oddrun, and Gunnar, xlix, 358, 
408-9 

Oddrun, The Lament of, xlix, 457- 
64; remarks on Lament, 268 

Ode, Hugo on the, xxxix, 357, 370, 
371. 372 

Ode, by O'Shaughnessy, xiii, 1246 

Ode in Imitation of Alc^us, xii, 
592-3 

Ode on Intimations of Immortal- 
ity, xii, 609; Emerson on, v, 485 

Ode, Written in mdccxlvi, xii, 
488 

Oderigi, in Dante's Purgatory, xx, 
191 and note 2 

Odeum, of Athens, xii, 52 

O Deus, Ego Amo Te, xlv, 568-9 

Odin, in the Edda, xlix, 385, 388, 
455 note; Emerson on, v, 357; 
in the Volsunga Saga, xlix, 275; 
276, 277, 279 note, 296 note, 298 
note, 303, 305, 306, 321, 380 
note I 

Odiousness, contrasted with sublim- 
ity, xxiv, 76 



Odors, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 212,210 

Odysseus (Ulysses), Achilles ancl, 
xxii, 106; ^neas and, xxxix, 165; 
^olus and, xxii, 136-8; Agamem- 
non on, viii, 35; Aias and, xxii, 
166; Alcinous and, 94-107, 114-16, 
118-20; Amphinomus and, 258-9; 
Antinous and, 248-51; Athene and, 
40, 187-92; as beggar, 238, 243-4, 
247-8; the boar and, 278-9; bo\f 
or, 295-6, 302-6; in Calypso's isle, 
9, 10, 62-3, 75-8; Charybdis and, 
174-5, 180; Charybdis and, Mil- 
ton^ on, iv,^ 136; the Cicones and, 
7xii, 121; in Circe's island, 140-9, 
? 80;^ Circe's prophecy for, 169-72; 
Ctesippus and, 292; the Cyclops 
and, 122-35; Cyclops and, Virgil 
on, xiii, 152; Dante on, xx, no- 
12 and note 7; Demodocus and, 
xxii, 117;^ dog of, 246; dog of, 
Pliny on, ix, 370 note; Don Quix- 
ote on, xiv, 224; Eumaeus, swine- 
herd of, xxii, 193-207, 216-21,288- 
90, 300-1 ; Eurycleia recognizes, 
276-80; Eurymachus ^ and, 264-6; 
faithful servants received by, 320; 
in the games, 108-10; jn Germany, 
xxxiii, 96; on God, ii, 126 (28); 
Hades, his visit to, xxii, 149-68; 
in island of Helios, 175-9; Hermes 
and, iv, 63; Iphitus and, xxii, 
295-6; Irus and, 255-8; Ithaca, 
arrival in, 184, 186-7; Laertes and, 
336-42; at Laestrygonia, 138-9; 
Lotus-eaters and, 122 (see Lotos- 
eaters); the mantle and, 206; Me- 
lantho and, 263-4; Milton on, iv, 
22, 264; Minerva and, xiii, 109; 
named by Autolycus, xxii, 278; 
Nausicaa and, 88-93; Nestor on, 
37, 38; omens of his success, 286- 
7; Palamedes and, xiii, 106; Pe- 
nelope and, xxii, 253-4, 268-76, 
281-2, 323-30; Penelope and, Bacon 
on, iii, 23; in Phaeacia, xxii, 82- 
4; Phaeacia, departure from, 181- 
3; Philomeleides and, 57; Pliny 
on, ix, 218 note 9; Poseidon and, 
xxii, 11; return home decreed by 
Zeus, 72-4; righteousness of, 66; 
at Scylla and Charybdis^ 174-5; 
Shelley on Homer's, xxvii, 352-3; 
Sidney on, 20; the Sirens and, 
xxii, 173-4; the siren and, Dante 
on, XX, 223 note 4; Socrates on, 
ii, 28; Spenser on, xxxix, 65; in 
the storm, xxii, 78-81; Telemachus 
and, 224-32, 291; in Troy, 118; in 
Troy as a beggar, 54-5; in Trojan 
horse, xiii,^ 112; xxii,_ 55; Virgi! 
on wanderings of, xiii, 370; the 
wooers and, xxii, 284-5, 307- 
17; wooers' friends and, 344-6; 
wrecked, 179-80 (see also Ulysses) 

Odyssey, Homer's, xxii; ^neid com- 
pared with, xiii, 40; xxxix, 165; 



GENERAL INDEX 



335 



Burke on, xxiv, 35; editor's re- 
marks on, 1, 19; lines on, by Lang, 
xxii, 7; reference to the, iv, 264 
CEbalus, ally of Turnus, xiii, 268-9 
CEdipus the King, viii, 197-242; 
-^schylus's supposed criticism of, 
456; Shelley on, xyiii, 276 
OEdipus, birth of, viii, 231-2; blinds 
himself, 235: Creon and, 213-16; 
daughters of, 240-1 ; elected king 
of Corinth, 224; exile of, 241; 
exposed to death by father, 218; 
father's dea'^h learned by, 218-19; 
grief of, 223-4; Homer on, xxii, 
159; Laius's murderer sought by, 
viii, 201, 204-5; li^e related by, 
220-1; marriage to wife of Laius, 
205; called (Edipodes, xxii, 159; 
in plague of the city, viii, 197-9; 
Polybus and, 225-9; Prynne on 
tragedies on, xxxiv, 157; remorse 
of, viii, 236-8; Sidney on exam- 
ple of, xxvii, 20; the sphinx and, 
IV, 414; viii, 209, 212; Teiresias 
denounces, 206-11; Voltaire on, 
xxxix, 382 

(Enone, in Ph^dra, with Phaedra, 
learns her love, xxvi, 130-6; urges 
Phaedra to live, 138-9, 147; pre- 
vents Phaedra's death, 151; urges 
Phaedra to assume throne, 153-5; 
announces Theseus's return, 156; 
urges Phaedra to accuse Hippoly- 
tus, 158-9; accuses Hippolytus, 
162-4; hears Hippolytus in love 
with Aricia, 170-2; denounced by 
Phaedra, 173-4; kills herself, 179 

CEnone and Paris, xl, 221 

Offa, reference to, xlix, 60 

Offences, against nature and custom, 
vii, 41-2; Jesus on, xliv, 404 (1-2) 

Offenders, patience toward, ii, 293 
(18) 

Office (see Public Office) 

Office Work, for literary workers, 
xxy, 57-8 

Officials, Bacon's advice to, iii, 31; 
Bentham on criticism of, xxvii, 
252-54; corruption of, inevitable 
under property system, xxxvi, 178; 
expences of, x, 486-7; legal re- 
sponsibility of, xxvii, 247-8; pri- 
vate offences of, xliii, 79 (61); 
Penn on public, i, 370-4 (see also 
Public Office) 

Offspring, universal love of, xl, 436 

Og, king of Bashan, xliv, 320 (11); 
Milton on, iv, 17 

Ogier, the Dane, xlix, 123, 125, 203 

Ogle, Mrs., in Schooi^ for Scandal, 
xviii, 13 1-2 

Oaygia, isle of Calypso, xxii, 100 

O'Hagan, J., translator of Dies Ir^, 
xlv, 563; translator of Roland, 
xlix, 95 

O'Higgins, family of, in Chili, xxix, 
369 



Ohlenschlager, on Danish readers, 
V, 379 

Ohod, battle of, xlv, 972 note, 976 
note 

Ohtere, son of Ongentheow, xlix, 
87; sons of, ^2, 7s 

Oicles, son of Antiphates, xxii, 214 

Oil, as vehicle of taste, xxiv, 128 

Okeanos, ^schylus on, viii, 161; in 
Prometheus Bound, 166-9 

O'Kearney, Nicholas, xlix, 210 

Oken, Emerson on, v, 183 

Olaf, and Eyvind, v, 286 

Olaf Tryggvason, and Leif Erics- 
son, xliii, 5 

Old Age, On, by Cicero, ix, 45-77; 
remarks on treatise, 6, 8 

Old Age, ^schylus on, viii, 8; 
Aristophanes on, 407; beauty of, 
iii, 112; Browne on, 306-7; Brown- 
ing on, xlii, II 48, 115 1 ; Buddha 
on, xlv, 678; Burns on, vi, 177, 
538; childishness of, xix, 14; 
Coleridge on, xli, 719-20; Collins's 
wish for, 607; comeliness of, ii, 
207 (2); envy of, iii, 24; Gold- 
smith on best, xli, 524; Kingsley 
on, xlii, 1 1 03; messenger of death, 
xlv, 701; Mill on happiness in, 
XXV, z^-7'y Milton on, iv, 336; 
Pliny on order in, ix, 240; Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 226\ Shakespeare 
on, xl, 272,'y talkativeness of, i, 6; 
Wordsworth on, xli, 630 

Old Age and Youth, Essay on. 
Bacon's, iii, iio-ii 

Old Cloak, The, xl, 190-2 

Old Familiar Faces, xli, 752 

Old Ironsides, xlii, 1443; remarks 
on, xxxviii, 234 

Old Man and Death, fable of, xvii, 
40 

Old Man of the Sea, the, xvi, 289- 
92 

Old Marlborough Road, xxviii, 414- 

15 

Old Stoic, The, xlii, 11 57 

Old Sweetheart, Lines to an, vi, 
231 

Old Testament, Books from, xliv, 
71-354 

Old Testament, Calvin on the, xxxix, 
52; Jesus on, xliv, 403 (16); Les- 
sing on the, xxxii, 199-207; Lu- 
ther on, xxxvi, 367; Mill on, xxv, 
252; miracles of, xlviii, 291 (827), 
293 (835)* 304 (852); Mohammed 
on, xlv, 1013; Pascal on, xlviii, 
210, 211, 213 (631), 214-15, 218- 
23, 225 (666), 226 (670), 230, 231, 
232-3, 235 (691), 236, 248 (714- 
36), 266 (740); Pascal on prophe- 
cies of, 190-2, 193 (576, 578); 
prosperity the blessing of, iii, 17 

Old Woman and Wine-jar, fable 
of, xvii, 45 



326 



GENERAL INDEX 



Naething, Stanzas on, vi, 233-4 
Naevius, Roman poet, iii, 205; 

quoted, ix, 53; old age of, 64 
Naga, the Great, xlv, 749 
Nageli, on plants, xi, 222 
Naharvalians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

120 
Naiads, Homer on the, xxii, 183; 

Milton on the, iv, 53 
Nails, as money in Scotland, x, 30; 

making of, 13 
Naimes, Duke, xlix, 104-5, 120, 124, 

126, 163, 164, 185, 186, 191, 193 
Nain, widow of, xliv, 376 (12-15) 
Nairne, Lady, poems by, xli, 573- 

80 
Name, good, a precious ointment, 

iii, 5 
Names, among the Bornoos, v, 208; 
Epictetus on, ii, 172 (154); Goethe 
on, xix, 53; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
337-43; independence of, v, 132; 
Thoreau on, xxviii, 429-30 
Namur, William of, xxxv, 10^ 
Nan Jung, Confucius on, xliv, 14 

(i), 34 (5) 
Nan-kung Kuo, xliv, 47 (6) 
Nantucket, Praying Indians of, xliii, 
149; Woolman's description of, i, 
256-8 
Nan-tzu, xliv, 21 (26), 23 note 3 
Naphtha, Browne on, iii, 284 
Naples, betrayed by Ferdinand, 
xxxix, 89; conquest of, xxxvi, 14, 
15, 28; described by Marlowe, 
xix, 22Z\ in 1 6th century, xxvii, 
411 ; Machiavelli on kingdom of, 
xxxvi, 7; papal authority in, 310- 
11; power of, before French inva- 
sion, 40; reasons of fall of, 82 
Naples, Stanzas written near, by 

Shelley, xli, 848-9 
Napoleon, aristocracy courted by, v, 
212; art of war of, 356; Bagehot 
on, xxviii, 206; Carlyle on, xxv, 
338, 422-3; on charlatanism, xxviii, 
66; compared with Milton's Satan, 
206; Emerson on, v, 275; Empire 
of, 390; English hated by, 389-90; 
etiquette of, 216; on French Revo- 
lution, xxviii, 482; on the heaviest 
battalions, v, 371; Hugo on, xxxix, 
397; Louisiana sold hj, xliii, 267 
note; Mazzini on, xxxii, 404, 412; 
method of, v, 86; at the pest 
house, 300-1 ; the royal armies 
and, 102; on sublime and ridicu- 
lous, xxxix, 375; the wounded offi- 
cer and, xxv, 350 
Napoleon III, Mill on, xxv, 153 
Nar, the squinter, xlix, 258 
Narahs, evil genii, xvi, 9 note 
Naraka, xlv, 871, 872 
Narcissus, cunning of, iii, 61; Dante 
on, XX, 295 note 2; Milton on, 
iv, 52; Shelley on, xli, 883 
Nardi, Jacopo, xxxi, 157 note 5 



Nariscans, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

119 
Narrative Poetry, forms of, xxxix, 

313 
Narrowness, of mind, Confucius on, 

xliv, 58 (9) 
Narses, Bacon on, iii, 24 
Narvaez, Roderick, and the Moor, 

xiv, 47 
Nasagena, and Milinda, xlv, 668-72, 

693-7 
Nashe, Thomas, poems by, xl, 265- 

267 
Nashope, Indian town, xliii, 153-4 
Nasidius, reference to, xx, 106 
Naso, banished by Augustus, iii, 

205; Dante on, xx, 19 
Nasomonians, Herodotus on the, 

xxxiii, 19-20 
Nassaro, Matteo del, xxxi, 318 note 
Nathan, and David, xliv, 209; Lu- 
ther^ on, xxxvi, 347; Sidney on, 
xxvii, 27 
Natick, Eliot on, xliii, 151 
National Antipathies, Browne on, 
iii, 330; Pascal on, xlviii, 104, 
105; Washington on, xliii, 261-2 
National Armies, Machiavelli on 

need of, xxxvi, 50 
National Banks, Marshall on, xliii, 
223-4, 22(i-2)Oy 238-40 (see also 
United States Bank) 
National Debt, congressional right to 
contract a, xliii, 196 (2) ; validity 
of, 211; Washington on, 260-1 
National Debts, Smith on, x, 574-90 
National Property, regulation of, 

xliii, 197 (17) 
National Wealth, Bacon on sources 

and distribution of, iii, 41-2 
Nationality, Freeman on sentiment 

of, xxviii, 239-40 
Nations, amorousness of different, 
xlviii, 426; as determined by lan- 
guage, xxviii, 261-82; origin of, 
254-58; Pascal on division of world 
into,^ xlviii, 104-5; Rousseau on 
division of mankind ^ into, xxxiv, 
218; Rousseau on origin of, 207; 
splendor of, how judged, v, 452; 
Taine on differences of, xxxix, 
446-56; Washington on relations 
with foreign, xliii, 261-5; Wool- 
man on prosperity of, i, 240-1 (see 
also Races) 
Nations, Wealth of. Smith's, x 
Nativity^ Hymn on the, iv, 7-15 
Naturae Encheiresis, xix, 74 
Natural, and artificial, xxv, 344; 

definition of word, xi, i 
Natural History, Bacon on, xxxix, 
143-6; Darwin's theory, its effect 
on, xi, 524-6; defined by Hobbes, 
xxxiv, 373 
Natural Laws, Descartes on, xxxiv, 
36-7; suppose an Intelligent Agent, 
xi, i; Wnewell on, i 



GENERAL INDEX 



327 



j Natural Liberty, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
407 (see also Natural State) 

. Natural Objects, Burke on effects of, 

xxiv, 136 
Natural Philosophy, Bacon on study 
of, iii, 129; Berkeley on, xxxvii, 
296-7; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 376; 
Hume on limits of, xxxvii, 329, 
355, 444; Huxley on study of, 
xxviii, 230; Kant on, xxxii, 317, 
318; Locke on, xxxvii, 174-8; Mil- 
ton on study of, iii, 253; Newton 
on, xxxix, 158-9; Socrates on, ii, 

5» 90 

Natural Price, defined, x, 58-9; mar- 
ket price tends to equal, 61-2; 
tends to minimum, 65 

Natural Principles, Pascal on, xlviii, 
40 (92), 41 (94) 

Natural Rectitude, Bentham on term, 
XXV, 46 ^ ^ 

Natural Religion (see Religion) 

Natural Rights, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
407-8, 417-29 

Natural Science, Bacon on, xxxix, 
135; Helmholtz on, xxx, 181-3 

N^atural Selection, xi, 93-144; Aris- 

i totle's idea of, 9 note; difficulties 
of theory, 178-261, 289-95, 312-14, 
333-4; meaning of, Tj', progress of 
idea of, 11-24; recapitulation of 
theory, 499-529; theory of, briefly 
stated, 23 

Natural State, advancement of man 

' from, xxxii, 301, 309-10; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 402-6; Pope on the, xl, 

• 437; Rousseau on man in, xxxiv, 
168, 171-200, 208-9; Schiller on, 
xxxii, 291-3 

"Natural Style, Pascal on, xlviii, 16 

•J^aturalization, Bacon ^ on, iii, 80; 
Freeman^ on, xxviii, 256-7; of 
plants, xi, 125; under control of 
Congress, xliii, 196 (4) ; of words, 
Johnson on, xxxix, 198 

■Naturalness, Locke on, xxxvii, 48, 49 

Mature, adaptations in, xi, T^i-Tt 90- 
i; art and, xxvii, 12; art and, 
Confucius on, xliv, 20 (16), 30 
(8) ; art and, Goethe on, xxx'x, 

i 268-71, 274; art and, Hugo on, 
385-6; art and, Whitman on, 424; 
Bacon on observation of, 148; 
Bacon on interpretation of, 139- 
46, 150-3; Berkeley on beauties 
of, xxxvii, 244-5; Berkeley on laws 
of, 2(iT\ Browne on, iii, 275 (12), 
279 (16), 278 (15), 280; Browne 
on study of, 276-7, 278-80; Bryant 
on, xlii, 1262; Burke on study of, 
xxiv, 7-8; Burns on, vi, ^2, 94, 
338-9. 537. 539; Channing on study 
of, xxviii, 339-40; Channing on 
unity of, 335-6; Cicero on accord- 
ance with, ix, "^2% Cicero on re- 
bellion against, 47; Coleridge on 



wisdom in, xxvii, 273; complexity 
of, xi, 85-92; contemners of, in 
Dante's Hell, xx, 47, 63-6; Dar- 
win on, xi, 95, 213-15, .219; Des- 
cartes's method of studying, xxxiv, 
51-3; economy of, xi, 159-60; edu- 
cation by, V, 7-8, dZi 200-1; xxviii, 
158-9; Emerson on, v, 25, 26-7, 56, 
93-4, 106-7, 174, 178, 179.. 197-8, 
200, 201, 250, 285, 312; xlii, 1301, 
1304, 1309; Epictetus on, ii, 164 
(130);^ God and, St. Augustine 
on, vii, 1 7 1-2; (jod and, Hume 
on, xxxvii, 419-28; God and, Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 82 (229), 90-1, 140 
(428), 194 (580), 330; Cod and, 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 109, 1 14-16; 
God and, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 260- 
I ; God and, Tennyson on, xlii, 
1038-0J Goethe on study of, xxxix, 
264; Gioethe on unity of, xix, 24; 
Goldsmith on gifts of, xli, 534; 
Hindu doctrine of, xlv, 862 ; Hume 
on knowledge of, xxxvii, Z^l'^^* 
330-1; Hunt on love of, xxvii, 
308; institutions influenced by, v, 
352; interdependence of, xxx, 176; 
lessons of, xlii, 1293-4; living ac- 
cording to, ii, 256 (74), 278 (2); 
xxxvi, 208, 209; Locke on works 
of, xxxvii, 174, 177; Lyell on laws 
of, xxxviii, 406; Marcus Aurelius 
on study of, ii, 206 (2) ; Milton 
on gifts of, iv, 65-7; Milton on 
unity and degrees of, 195; "never 
betrayed the heart that loved her," 
xli, 653; Newton on phenomena of, 
xxxix, 158-9; "non facit saltum," 
xi, 205-6, 217; offences against, 
vii, 41-2; opposition in, ii, 60-1; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 25-7, 40 (91), 4p 
(11 9-21); Penn on life next to, 1, 
359; Penn on study of, 337 (3), 
338-9; pleasure the plan of, xli, 
659; Pope on, xl, 425, 433-4. 436, 
444; proverb on, v, 95; Raleigh 
on, xxxix, II 4-16; Ruskin on our 
carelessness of, xxviii, 123-4; Shel- 
ley on love of, xli, 848; Thoreau 
on attractions and benefits of, 
xxviii, 407-38; Wiiitman on life 
with, xlii, 1494; **win out," xvii, 
44; Wordsworth on love of, xli, 
614-15, 652-3, 694 

Nature, Essay on, Emerson s, v, 
233-48 

Nature, Goodness of, essay on, iii, 
34-6 

Nature, Hymn to the Spirit of. 
xli, 864 

Nature in Men, Bacon's essay, iii, 
101-3 

Nature, The Influences of, xli, 
622-9 

Nature and the Poet, xli, 620-2 

Nature's Law: A Poem, vi, 236-8 

Naturlangsamkeit, v, 114 



338 



GENERAL INDEX 



marriage of Tartuffe and Mariane, 
253-4; refuses to believe Tar- 
tuffe false, 255-6; at meeting of 
Tartuffe and Elmire, 257, 263-4; 
orders Tartuffe away, 265 ; re- 
pents gifts to Tartuffe, 265-6; 
with Cleante, 266-8; with Madame 
Pernelle, 269-71; advised to pre- 
tend peace with Tartuffe, 2^2-, 
ordered to vacate house, 274-8; 
warned to fly, 279-80; stopped by 
Tartuffe, 280-1 ; his property re- 
stored, 283-4 

Oria, Pagan de, death of, xiv, 407-8 

Oriana, Lady, Amadis and, xiv, 125, 
225, 239; to Dulcinea, 17 

Orient, Tennyson on the, xlii, 1017- 
18 

Oriental Languages, Burke on, xxiv, 

147 
Oriental Literature, Hastings on, v, 

464 
Oriental States, Taine on, xxxix, 

454 
Origen, heresy of, iii, 270 
Origin of Species, Darwin's, xi 
Original Sin, Bunyan's parable of, 
XV, 34; Burns on, vi, 75; Calvin 
on, xxxix, 52; Kempis on, vii, 
339 (2) ; Lessing on doctrine of, 
xxxii, 212; Milton on, iv, 145, 
ZZZ\ Pascal on, xlviii, 83 (230) 
147-8, 151 (445-7). 269 (752) 
Originality, Bacon on, iii, 135-6; 
Emerson on, v, 63, 64, 84-5; 
Hugo on, xxxix, 406; Johnson on, 
243; Mill on, XXV, 269-71; Pascal 
on perception of, xlviii, 10 (7), 
108 (302); in poetry, Hugo on, 
xxxix, 383-5 ; in poetry, Words- 
worth on, 348-51; Whitman on, 
419 (see also Individuality) 
Orinda, reference to, xl, 396 
Orinoco, Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 338, 
339. 341. 351. Z^2, 374-5; tribu- 
taries of the, 384 
Orion, Aurora and, xxii, 74; Homer 
on, 160, 166; mentioned in Job, 
xliv, 86, 136; Milton on, iv, 98; 
Virgil on, xiii, 47-8, 148, 353 
Orithea, and Boreas, xxvii, 284 
Orlando, Dante on, xx, 129 and 
note; in Dante's Paradise, 363; 
Don Quixote on, xiv, 225, 238, 515; 
to Don Quixote, 16; Sidney on, 
xxvii, 13 (see also Roland) 
Orlando Furioso, composition of, 
xxvii, 372; Montaigne on, xxxii, 
95; Shelley on, xxvii, 366 
Orleans, Duke of, at Poitiers, xxxv, 

37. 47 
Orleans, Duke of, (Egalite) Burke 

on, xxiv, 401, 440 
Orme, Captain, on Braddock, i, 142 
Ormond, Hugo on, xxxix, 399 



Ornaments, Whitman on, xxxix, 434 
Ornithology, Emerson on science of, 

V, 307 
Ornithorhynchus Paradoxus, xxix, 

466 
Ornithus, death of, xiii, 385-6 
Orodes, death of, xiii, 352 
Oronte, Moliere on, xxvi, 204-5 
Orontes, in the ^neid, xiii, 79, 96 
Oropus, case of, xii, 200 
Oros, as king of Egypt, xxxiii, 74 
Orosius, Paulus, xx, 330 note 23 
Orphan House, Whitefield's, i, 105-6 

107 
Orphans in Massachusetts, xliii, 82 

(84) ; Mohammed on, xiv, 892, 

895, 927, 980-1 
Orpheus, yEschylus on, viii, 67; 

Aristophanes on, 451; in Dante's 

Limbo, XX, 20; Dryden on, xl, 400; 

Euripides on, viii, 373; on hoari- 

ness, V, 182; Milton on, iv, 34-5, 

37> 75, 231; Sidney on, xxvii, 8, 
» 14; Socrates on, ii, 28; Virgil on, 

xiii, 215; in Virgil's Hades, 233 
Orphic Mysteries, Herodotus on the, 

xxxiii, 41-2 
Orses, death of, xiii, 352 
Orsilochus, in the ^neid, xiii, 384, 

385; in the Odyssey, xxii, 47, 

188, 213 
Orsini, Alexander VI and the, 

xxxvi, 25; Burke on, xxiv, 282; 

Colonnesi and, xxxvi, 40, 41; 

Duke Valentine and, 25-6, 28, 23, 

Orsini, Franciotto, xxxi, 83 note 3 
Orsino, Gierolimo, xxxi, 210 note 
Orsino, in The Cenci, with Bea- 
trice, xviii, 285-7; plots against 
Beatrice, 287-8; returns petition, 
294; with Giacomo, 300-2; 316-18; 
plans to win Beatrice, 302-^; 
learns Beatrice's wrong, 307-8; in 
plot to kill Cenci, 308-14; letter 
to Beatrice found, 332; with Gia- 
como after murder, 335-7; flight 
of. 337-^ > accused by Marzio, 338 
Orso, Count da Cerbaia, xx, 168 

note 6 
Orsono, volcano of, xxix, 292, 309 
Orsua, Pedro de, xxxiii, 333, 374 
Ortal, Jeronimo, xxxiii, 334 
Orthodox, in Faust, xix, 178 
Orthodoxy, Burns on, vi, 222; Co- 
pernicus on, xxxix, 55; Penn on, 

i, 377 (472) 
Orthography, Johnson on English, 

xxxix, 192-5 
Ortolans, in France, x, 195 
Ortygius, Virgil on, xiii, 316 
Orus, the god, Milton on, iv, 14, 

102 
Osborne, Chas., friend of Franklin, 

i, 38-40 



GENERAL INDEX 



339 



Osbrit Longhand, xlix, 249 
O'Shaughnessy, Arthur, Ode by, xlii, 

1246 
Osians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, iii, 

IJO 

Osiris, Dionysus and, xxxiii, 25, 74; 

Milton on, iv, 14 (24), 102; 

story of, iii, 2^2 
Oslaf, xlix, 35 note 5, 38 
Osman, humanity of, v, 226 
Osprey, Harrison on the, xxxv, 358 
Osric, in Hamlet, xlvi, 190-3, 195, 

196 
Ossa, and Pelion, Homer on, xxii, 

160 
Ossa, Jacques d* (see John XXII) 
Ossar, Conaire's dog, xlix, 242 
Ossian, and St. Patrick, xxxii, 177- 

8; Wordsworth on Books of, 

xxxix, 344-6 
Ostanta, defined, xxxiv, 397 
Ostentation, Bacon on, iii, 26; Penn 

on, i, 375; of virtue, ii, 177 (176) 

(see also Vainglory) 
Osteomyelitis, Pasteur on, xxxviii, 

394 

Ostracism, at Athens, xii, 25-6; 
directed against persons of repu- 
tation, 81, 87; manner of, 87; 
remarks on, 120 

Ostrich, Darwin on the, xi, 148; 
described in Job, xliv, 137-8; eggs 
of the, xi, 274-5; xxix, 125; par- 
asitical habits of the, 64; the S. 
American, 101-6 

Oswald, in Da Derga's Hostel, xlix, 

^249 

Oswald, in King Lear, xlvi, 217, 
219, 220, 227y 233-6, 244, 263, 269- 
70, 275-6, 283-4 

Oswald, Mrs., Ode to, vi, 344 

Othello, and Desdemona, Lamb on, 
xxvii, 317, 326-7; Macaulay on, 
396; Ruskin on, xxviii, 142; Vol- 
taire on, xxxiv, 134 

Otho, Count, in Song of Roland, 
xlix, 125, 142, 178 

Otho, Emperor, death of, xviii, 434; 
followers of, iii, 10 

Otho IV, and Gualdrada, xx, 68 
note I 

Otho, Marcus, xii, 235-6 

Otos (see Otus) 

Otter, son of Hreidmar, xlix, 304-5 

Otterburn, The Battle of, xxxv, 
83-105 

Otterburn: a ballad, xl, 89-94 

Ottergild, gold called, xlix, 306 

Otters, ^ in Chonos Islands, xxix, 
305; in the Nile, xxxiii, 38; sanc- 
tity of, xlix, 305 note 

Ottocar, King of Bohemia, Dante 
on, XX, 175 and note 6 

Ottoman, Bacon on, iii, 136 

Ottomans (see Turks) 



Otus, Homer on, xxii, 160 

Otway, Sylvester, Burns on, vi, 359 

Otway, Thomas, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 
292; Venice Preserved of, xxxiv, 
134 

Our Blessed Lady's Lullaby, xl, 
261-5 

Our Lady's Child, tale of, xvii, 
54-8 

Out Over the Forth, vi, 422 

Outcry, much, little outcome, xvii, 
16 

Outdoor Life, and love of beauty, 
xxxix, 415; Locke on, xxxvii, 14- 
15 

Outlaw, The, xii, 755-7 

Oven-bird, Darwin on the, xxix, 107 

Over-population, leads to wars, iii, 
146 

Overreach, Sir Giles, in New Way 
TO Pay Old Debts, character of, 
xlvii, 818; uncle of Wellborn, 
821; Wellborn on, 824; at All- 
worth's, 830-1; with Wellborn, 
831; scene with Marrall, 835-8; 
Furnace on, 844-5; with Marrall 
after the dinner, 849-51; prepara- 
tions for Lord Lovell, 854-5; with 
Margaret, 855-9; with Lovell, 859- 
60; at meeting of Lovell and Mar- 
garet, 860, 861-3 867; receives 
Lady Allworth and Wellborn, 863- 
4; believes Lady Allworth in love 
with Wellborn, 866; conference 
with Wellborn, 867-8; with Lovell 
at Allworth's, 869-73; his plot 
against Wellborn, 880-1, 885; with 
Allworth and Margaret, 882-5; at 
Allworth's in search of daughter, 
888-9; with Wellborn, 889-93; 
learns daughter's marriage, 894-5; 
with Lovell, 895-6; crazed, 897-8 

Overreach, Margaret, in New Way 
TO Pay Old Debts, Allworth and, 
xlvii, 824; intended for Lord Lov- 
ell, 837-8, 850; Lovell and All- 
worth on, 851-4; scene with father, 
855-9; with Lovell, 860-2; with 
Allworth, 863 ; parting with Lov- 
ell, 867; Lady Allworth on, 875; 
scene with Allworth, 881-5; an- 
nounces marriage to Allworth, 
894-5; in final scene, 898 

Overshot Wheels, xxx, 188-9 

OvER-SouL, Essay on the, v, 137- 

Over-soul, Aristotle's idea of an, 
xxxiv, 104; exhibited in laws of 
compensation, v, 89; Hindu doc- 
trine of, xlv, 817, 828-9, 831-53. 
862-3,868-9; Pythagorean doctrine 
of the, ix, 74; relations of man 
to the, v, 75, 76; Virgil on the, 
xiii, 235-6 

Overton, Hugo on, xxxix, 400 



340 



GENERAL INDEX 



Over-trading, cause of scarcity of 
money, x, 334-5 

Overwork, More on causes of, 
xxxvi, 191-2; Smith on results of, 
X, 87; Woolman on, i, 205-6, 
261-2 

Ovid, Chaucer compared with, xxxix, 
161, 167-9; Dante on, xx, 106; 
Dryden on, xiii, 36, 37, 38, 53-4, 
57; Dryden on Metamorphoses of, 
xxxix, 160: on himself in love, 
xxiv, 25; Montaigne on Metamor- 
phoses of, xxxii, 70, 92 

Ovieda, Gonzalo de, xxxiii, 333 note 
18 

Ovules, position of, xi, 224 

Owannamug, the Indian, xliii, 153 

Owen, Aneurin, xxxii, 145 

Owen, Knight, in Purgatory, xxxii, 
186; Renan on, 149 

Owen, Prof. Richard, on cuttle-fish, 
xi, 482; on disadvantages of size, 
370; on the dugong, 453; Emer- 
son on, V, 461; on fossils, xi, 388; 
on generalized forms, 378; on 
highly developed parts, 161; on 
limbs, 473; on Megatheroid ani- 
mals, xxix, 95-6; Mill on, xxv, 
no; on non-flying birds, xi, 147; 
on origin of species, 14-15; the 
Solenhofen fossils and, xxviii, 122; 
on turkey-buzzards, xxix, 199 

Owl, Darwin on the little, xxix, 
138 

Ox AND Frog, fable of, xvii, 19 

Oxen, English, Harrison on, xxxv, 
344; German, Tacitus on, xxxiii, 
97; More on, xxxvi, 184; sacred 
in Egypt, xxxiii, 23-5; why not 
grand, xxiv, 58 

Oxen and Lion, fable of, xvii, 32 

Oxenham, John, with Drake, xxxiii, 

141, 144, 164, 177, 180, 190, 199 
Oxford, Earl of, A Renunciation, 

xl, 296 
Oxford, Earldom of, v, 421 
Oxford University, Emerson on, v, 
433-5; Harrison on, xxxv, 391- 
400, 402-3; Huber on, xxviii, 49- 
50; Newman on, 47-51 
Oxidrakes, cannon of, iii, 146 
Oxiones, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 123 
Oxnam, John (see Oxenham) 
Oxygen,^ absorbed by bacteria, 
xxxviii, 343; absorbed by fruits, 
321; in air, xxx, 147-51; breathing 
requires, 17 1-2; combustion in, 
T42-4; combustion requires, 57-9; 
Faraday on, 47-9; Helmholtz on, 
213; hydrogen and, 53, 145; pro- 
duced from water, 140; produc- 
tion of, easy method, 141-2; tested 
by nitrous oxide, 148; weight of, 

142, 151; yeast and, xxxyiii, 289- 
31 7i 329-32 



Oysters, no heart In, xxxviii, 137; 

Raleigh on, xxxiii, 322 
Ozeyr, and the ass, xvi, 123 note 
Ozymandias of Egypt, xli, 873-4 
Paches, death of, xii, 108 
Pacific Islanders, Pretty on, xxxiii, 

226 
Pacific Ocean, Darwin on, xxix, 425, 

440; Drake and the, xxxiii, 126, 

177 
Pack, CivOuds, Away, xl, 324-5 
Pack of Ragamuffins, The, xvii, 

69-70 
Pacorus, death of, xii, 360 
Pacuvius, play of, ix, 16-17; works 

of, lost, xxvii, 361 
Padarn, coat of, xxxii, 152 
Padilla, story of, xxi, 5 
Padumuttara, xlv, 796-7 
Paeeon, in Odyssey, xxii, 54 
Paetus, Caecinna, Arria and, ix, 253-5 
Paetus, L. Papirius, letters to, ix, 161, 

165, 166 
Pagan, in Pii^grim's Progress, xv, 

70 
Pagan, Isobel, Ca' the Yowes, xli, 

569 
Pagan Learning, Milton on study 

of, iii, 209-10 
Pagan Philosophy, Hugo on, xxxix, 

360 
Pagan Poets, Wordsworth on the, 

xxxix, 321 
Pagani, Dante on the, xx, 205 note 

^7 . 

Paganism, Bacon on, iii, 1 1 ; Hobbes 

on, xxxiv, 394-8; Hugo on, xxxix, 

360; Pascal on, xlviii, 199 (601) 

Pagano, Machinardo, xx, 114 note 8 

Pagans, in Hell, Browne on, iii, 

319; Dante on, xx, 18-21 
Pagasus, death of, xiii, 385 
Page, Curtis Hidden, translator of 

Moliere, xxvi, 187 
Paget, Stephen, translator of Pare, 

xxxviii, 7, 9 note 
Pagno, Zanobi di, xxxi, 373 
Pagolo, Pietro (see Galleotti) 
Pain, Berkeley on idea of, xxxvii, 
207, 211; Burke on standards of, 
xxiv, II -1 2; cause of, 11 0-12; 
darkness as cause of, 122-5; of 
death, iii, 9; delight caused by, 
xxiv, 1 13-14; endurance of, xxxvii, 
100- 1, 106-8; Epictetus on, ii, 135 
(55); fear of, xxxvii, 103, 105; 
Hunt on, xxvii, 301-2; of the 
imagination, xxiv, 16-22; from 
imitations, xxxix, 234; infinity as 
cause of, xxiv, 11 7-18; of the 
judgment, 22-4; Locke on, xxxvii, 
92; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 231 
(26), 250 (33), 254 (64), 261 
(28), 263 (42), 264 (47), 268 
(i); of others, pleasure in, xxiv, 
41-4; Pascal on yielding to, xlviii. 



GENERAL INDEX 



341 



62 (160) J passions excited by, 
xxiv, 36; philosophic attitude 
toward, ii, 75-6; pleasure in rela- 
tion to, xxiv, 30-1, 36; removal 
of, not positive pleasure, 31-4, 35; 
Rousseau on, xxxiv, 268; of the 
senses, xxiv, 13-16; sensibility to, 
24-5; Socrates on, and pleasure, 
ii, 48; sublimity always produced 
by, xxiv, 76; vastness as cause of, 
1 1 5-16; Webster on, xlvii, 814 

i'aine, Thomas, Burke on, xxiv, 442; 
Franklin and, i, 173 

i*ainting, Burke on effects of, xxiv, 
136; Coleridge on, xxvii, 275; 
color in, xxxix, 270; color in 
historical, xxiv, 72; defined as 
mute poesy, xxvii, 271; Locke on 
study of, xxxvii, 186; knowledge 
of minerals needed in, xxxix, 270; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 51 (134); plastic 
art strives toward, xxxix, 274; 
poetry compared with, xxiv, 55-7, 
146; reason of power of, 41, 45 

^alace, Bacon's idea of a, iii, 11 5-1 7 

!*alaeontological Collections, poorness 
of, xi", 340-6 

J'alamedes, Trojan War and, xiii, 
106 

^alamon and Arcite, story of, xxxix, 
167, 169, 180 

'alazzo, Conrado da, xx, 213 note 8 

:^ales, Milton on, iv, 2y^ 

Palgrave, Francis T., Golden Treas- 
ury of, xl, 10 

?alinurus, in -^Eneid, xiii, 138, 148, 

149, 183, 209-10, 222-0^ 

Pallas Athene, in the ^neid, xiii, 
124; in Trojan war, tj, 109 (see 
also Athene) 

Pallas, son of Evander, in the 
^Eneid, xiii, 2'](ii 289, 291, 339-40. 
341, 342-3, 361-4. 365-7. 428 

Pallavicini, Cellini on, xxxi, 218 
note, 219-21 

Pallium, the, xxxvi, 296 note 

Palmer, E. H., translator of Koran, 
xlv, 885 

Palmer, Kay, hymn by, xlv, 583; 
translator of hymn, 563 

Palmer, London printer, i, 43, 44 

^almerin of England, xiv, 54 

^almerin de Oliva, xiv, 54 

Palmerston, Lord, on English troops, 
V, 371 

Palmus, death of, xiii, 351 

Pampas, S. American, Darwin on, 
xxix, 86-147; changes of animals 
and plants in, 132; geology of, 
1 41 -3; view of the, from the 
Andes, 347; formation of the, 348 

Pan, Browning on, xli, 948-9; date 
of, xxxiii, 74-5; as Egyptian god, 
28; Emerson on, v, 238; Milton 
on, iv, 10 (8), 380; Syrinx and, 
xl, 386 



Pan, Hymn of, xli, 845-6 
Panaetius, on Aristides, xii, 81; 

Plutarch on, 17 
Panama, Convention of U. S. with, 

xliii, 478-91 
Panama Canal, xliii, 478 note 
Panama, Isthmus of, Drake at, 

xxxiii, 179; formerly open, xi, 

396-7 
Panatuket, Eliot on, xlni, 155 
Pandafilando, the giant, xiv, 2g7 
Pandar, Chaucer's, xxvii, 20 
Pandarus, in the JEijeid, xiii, 320, 
321-2; in the Odyssey, xxii, 281, 
286 
Pandemonium, palace of Satan, iv, 

108; council in, 11 1-23 
Pandora, Milton on, iv, 175 
Panegyric, Pliny on, ix, 201; Swift 

on, xxvii, 124 
Paniagando on Dulcinea del Toboso, 

xiy, 540 
Panic, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 355 
Panope, Milton on, iv, 76; in 

Ph^dra, xxvi, 137-8, 179 
Panopea, in the ^neid, xiii, 190, 

192-3 
Pansa, Cicero and, xii, 262; death 

of, 264-5 
Pantasilea, mistress of Cellini, xxxi, 

58, 65-71 
Pantheism, The Higher, xiii, 1038-9 
Pantheus, priest of Apollo, xiii, 114; 

death of, 118 
Panthers, said to be marked with 

constellations, xxvi, 12 and note 
Paoli, of Corsica, Mill on, xxv, 11 
Paolo, Padre, iii, 206; Dr. Donne 

and, XV, 362 
Paolo of' Rimini, xx, 24 note 3 
Papacy, Dante's allegory of, xx, 
267-9, 277-8, 280-1, 283; Dante on 
temporal authority of the, 213, 
400-2* Henry VIII on the, xxxvi, 
124; Luther on corruption of the, 
355-7. 359; Machiavelli on tem- 
poral power of the, 40-2; Milton 
on the, iv, 358-9; More on su- 
premacy of the, xxxvi, 135* Pas- 
cal on the, xlviii, 309 (871-7), 311 
(880) (see also Popes) 
Papal Pardons (see Indulgences) 
Papamene River, xxxiii, 330 note, 

335 

Paper Money, advantages of, x, 240- 
9; limits to circulation of, 24p- 
50; dangers of, 259-60; Franklin 
on, i, 65; effect on value of gold 
and silver, x, 268; effect on in- 
dustry, 258-9; effect of increase on 
prices, 263-4 

Paphlagonia, Pliny on, ix, 393 note i 

Paphos, island of Venus, viii, 364; 
xiii, 89-90; Emerson on, v, 236 

Papian Law, the, ix, 430 note 

Papin, Pierres, xiv, 148 



342 



GENERAL INDEX 



Papirius, Gaius, flatteries of, ix, 40 
Pappus, historian, xii, 222-3 
Papremis, worship at, xxxiii, 33, 34' 

5, 38 
Papunehang, the Indian, i, 277,^ 278 
Papyrus, eaten in Egypt, xxxiii, 46 
Parables, Bunyan on, xv, 8-9 
Paracelsus, on creation of man, iii, 

301; Emerson on, v, 183 
Paraclete, Holy Ghost called, xlv, 

559, 560 
Paradise, Dante's, xx, 287-427 
Paradise, Marvell on, xl, 387; Mo- 
hammedan, xlv, 899, 902, 903-4» 
905-6, 911-12, 922, 952, 963, 973 
Paradise, The Garden of, xvii, 298- 

312 
Paradise of Fools, iv, 149-50 
Paradise Lost, Milton's, iv, 89-362; 
Arnold on selections from, xxviii, 
73-4; Bagehot on, 201-12; compo- 
sition of, iv, 5; Dryden on, xiii, 
13; Hugo on, xxxix, 372; Poe on, 
xxviii, 383-4; Shelley on, xxvii, 
365-6; subject compared with other 
great epics, iv, 264; Wordsworth 
on, xxxix, 336-8 
Paradise Regained, Milton's, iv, 

362-415; date of, 5 
Paradoxes, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 202; 

Goethe on, xix, 105 
Paraeus, on Revelations, iv, 416 
Parallax, of stars, xxx, 329-30 
Paralus, Plato on, ii, 21 
Parana River, Darwin on the, xxix, 
138-9, 147, 151-2; sediment of, 
xxxviii, 424 
Parasitic Insects, xi, 275 
Parceval, romance of, xxxii, 172-4 
Parcitati, Montagna de*, xx, 113 

note 6 
Pardon, right of, in early Massachu- 
setts, xliii, 80-1 
Pardoner, Chaucer's, xl, 29-31 
Pardoning Power, of President, xliii, 

201 (i) 
Pardons, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 424 
Pardoning, the honorablest revenge, 

xlvii, 778; proverb on, xvi, 70 
Pare, Ambroise, Journeys in Di- 
verse Places, xxxviii, 9-61; re- 
marks on Journeys of, 1, 24, 44; 
life and works, xxxviii, 8 
Paredes, Garcia de, xiv, 513 
Parents, and children, intercourse 
between, xxviii, 293; and children, 
Locke on, xxxvii, 28-33, 34-48, 52 
note, 52-3, 58-9, 63-71, 85-7, 88- 
96, 111-18; and children, Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 75-7; Confucius 
on duty to, xliv, 6 (10), 7, (5, 6, 
7, 8), 14 (18-21), 45 (18); Mo- 
hammed on inheritances of, xlv, 
981-2; Mohammed on kindness to, 
926; Montaigne on education by, 
xxxii, 40; Penn on obedience to, 



i. 355-6; Tzu-hsia on duty to, 5 
(7); Yu-tzu on duty to, xliv, 5 (2) 

Parents and Children, Essay on> 
Bacon's, iii, 20-1 

Parigi, Piera de Salvadore, wife of 
Cellini, xxxi, 2 

Paris, son of Priam, in Dante's 
Hell, xx, 23 ; Dares and, xiii, 
194; Helen and, viii, 19-20; Mimas 
and, xiii, 351; King Proteus and, 
xxxiii, 55-6; punishment of, viii, 
24; Webster on judgment of, xlvii, 
758 

Paris (city), industries of, x, 276; 

f)reeminence of, in French Revo- 
ution, xxiv, 345-6 
Paris, Parliament of, on National 

Assembly, xxiv, 186 
Paris, University of, site of, xxviii, 

45-6 
Paris, Treaty of, xliii, 185-91 
Paris, Abbe, miracles of, xxxvii, 409 
Paris, Ferdinand John, i, 167-9 
Paris and O^none, xl, 221 
Park, Mungo, on desire for salt, 

xxix, 123 
Parker, Hugh, Epistle to, vi, 322 
Parker, Theodore, on democracy, 

xxviii, 473 
Parliament, burgesses in, xxxv, 236; 

under the Commonwealth, xliii, 

114-20; More's plea for freedom 

of, xxxvi, 99-100; Voltaire on, 

xxxiv, 86-90, 92 
Parliament of Man, xiii, 1016 
Parma, Duchess of (see Margaret 

of Parma) 
Parma, Prince of, xix, 203 note 26 
Parmenas, the deacon, xliv, 441 (5) 
Parmenides, Dante on, xx, 344; Sid- 
ney on, xxvii, 9 
Parmenius, Stephen, xxxiii, 299 note 
Parnassus Hill, O Were I on, vi, 

33-2 
Parnell, More and, xxxvi, 121 
Paros, marbles of, xiii, 135 
Parrot, South American, xxix, 151 
Parrot and the Husband, story of, 

xvi, 37-8 
Parry, C. H., Jenner to, xxxviii, 151 
Parsees, of Bombay, xxv, 293 note; 

Freeman on the, xxviii, 281 
Parsifal, legend of, xxxii, 173 
Parsimony, Bacon on, iii, 93; Burke 

on, xxiv, 418; defined by Hobbes, 

xxxiv, 354; why dishonorable, 380; 

economically considered, x, 278-9; 

motives of- 282, 283 
Parson, Chaucer's, xl, 24-6; Dryden 

on Chaucer's, xxxix, 172 
Parson, Goldsmith's, xli, 525-6 
Parsons, William, i, 60 
Parthenon, built by Ictinus and 

Callicrates, xii, 51; Emerson on 

the, xiii, 1299 
Parthenope, Milton on, iv, 70 



GENERAL INDEX 



343 



Parthia, Antony's war with, xii, 363- 
75; Cicero in, ix, 141-3, 153; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 395-6 
Parthians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

116-17 
Partiality, Penn on, i, 373*4 
Participles, Johnson on, xxxix, 199 
Particles, Johnson on, xxxix, 202 
Parties, political, Emerson on, v, 
254-5; Franklin's observations on, 
i> 93; Washington on, xliii, 255, 
257, 258-9 
Parting at Morning, xlii, mi 
Parting Kiss, The, vi, 336 
Partisanship, of principle, i, 374-5 

(432-8) ; of rulers, iii, 39 
Partnerships, Franklin on, i, 109 
Partridges, in Brazil, xxix, 56 
Parvenu, in Faust, xix, 170-1 
Parvenus, envy of, iii, 24 
Parvin, Benj., Woolman's com- 
panion to Indians, i, 268-80 
Parwin, Omar Khayyam on, xli, 983 
Pascal, Blaise, language of, xxxix, 
394; Letters, xlviii, 325-68; life 
and works, 5-6; Minor Works, 
369-451; M. de Saci on, 392; 
Thoughts, 7-322; remarks on 
Thoughts, 6; 1, 34 
Pascal, Jacqueline, sister of Blaise, 
xlviii, 325-35, 346; letters of, 328- 
35; letter to, 325-7; profession of, 
346 
Pascal, pere, epitaph on, xlviii, 369; 

letter on death of, 335-46 
"Pascha, The," Drake's flagship, 

xxxiii, 134 
Paschal, St., Luther on, xxxvi, 267 

(29) 
Pascucci, Girolamo, the Perugian, 

xxxi, 196-7, 209-10, 211, 223 
Pasenadi, the Kosalan, xlv, 691, 771- 

772 

Pasiphae, Dante on, xx, 50 note 3, 

253; Massinger on, xlvii, 866; 

in the Mournful Fields, xiii, 226 

Pasqualigo, Lorenzo, letter of, xliii, 

47:8 
Passion, Blake on, xli, 604; Bun- 
yan's allegory of, xv, 35-6; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 16 (10); in 
Dante's Hell, xx, 32, 48; Hindu 
Krishna on, xlv, 816, 864-5, 874, 
878, 879; Kempis on, vii, 251 (i); 
nature seen in moments of, iii, 
102; Penn on, i, 363-4; Poe on, 
xxviii, 403; reason and, iii, 284; 
in religion, i, 383 (533-40) ; simu- 
lation of, xlviii, 426-7 (see also 
Anger) 
Passion, The, Milton, iv, 24-5 
Passions, Burke on study of the, 
xxiv, 47-9; Burke on taste in the, 
22; clearness not necessary to af- 
fect the, 53-4; David on the, xli. 



503; Epictetus on correction of, 
ii, 183 (14); Harvey on physical 
effects of the, xxxviii, 131 ; Hobbes 
on the, xxxiv, 350-9; Hume on 
the, xxxvii, 373-4; infinity, its ef- 
fect on the, xxiv, 64-5 ; intellectual 
differences caused by, xxxiv, 366- 
7; of love, xxiv, 37, 38-9; Pascal 
on the, xlviii, 134 (412-13), 418, 
167 (502); physical causes of 
the, xxiv, 108-35; poetry, its ef- 
fect on the, 53-7; Pope on the, 
xl, 428-31; power, its effect on 
the, xxiv, 57-62; privation, its 
effect on the, 63; Rousseau on 
the, xxxiv, 180-1; Ruskin on the, 
xxviii, II 6-1 8; reason and, xxiv, 
41; of self-preservation, 35-6; 38; 
of society, 37-46; strong, most 
creditable to conquer, vii, 245 
(4) ; sublimity, its effect on the, 
xxiv, 51-76; thoughts and, xxxvii, 
316, 319; vastness, its effect on 
the, xxiv, 63-4; words, their power 
over the, 136-48; Wordsworth on, 
xxxix, 350 
Passions, The, by Collins, xli, 488- 

91 
Passionate Shepherd, Marlowe's, 

xl, 259 
Passivity, and activity, ii, 271 (16) 
Passover, feast of the, xliv, 416 (i) 
Past, America's attitude toward the, 
xxxix, 409; Bacon on the, iii, 15, 
65; Bentham on veneration of the, 
xxvii, 238-44; Byron on, xxviii, 
402-3; Carlyle on, xxv, 367; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, II (21); Des- 
cartes on rejection of the, xxxiv, 
15; Ecclesiastes on the, xliv, 347 
(10); Emerson on the, v, 8, 75-6, 
107; Goethe on study of, xix, 28-9; 
Hobbes on the, xxxiv, 333; Low- 
ell on worship of the, xlii, 1451; 
Pascal on the, xlviii, 362; Ra- 
leigh on the, xxxix, 101-2, 105; 
reasoning from, to future, xxxvii, 
335; Tennyson on the, xlii, 1002-3 
(see also Antiquity) 
Past, The, by Bryant, xlii, 1269- 

71 
Past and Present, by Hood, xli, 

935-6 
Pasteur, Louis, on bacteria, xxxviii, 
271; editorial remarks on papers 
of, 1, 45; to his father, xxxviii, 
285; Germ Theory, 382-402; life 
and works, 284; Theory of Fer- 
mentation, 287-381 
Pastimes, Locke on, xxxvii, 188 
Pastoral Poetry, Sidney on, xxvii, 

28 
Pastoral Poetry, by Burns, vi, 434 
Pastoureaux, the, xxxv, 64 note 
Pasture, rent of, x, i57-9» 160 



344 



GENERAL INDEX 



Patagonia, Darwin Oii, xxix, 178-87, 

193-202, 530 
Patagonians, Darwin on the, xxix, 

248 
Patarbemis, and Amasis, xxxiii, 83- 

84 
Patents, under control of Congress, 

xliii, 197 (8); Franklin on, i, 116- 

17 

Paternus, Pliny to, ix, 219, 341 

Pathos, Wordsworth on, in poetry, 
xxxix, 350-1 

Patience, Bacon on lack of, iii, 
141; better than pride, xliv, 347 
(8); Buddha on, xlv, 610; Bun- 
yan's allegory of, xv, 35-6; By- 
ron's Manfred on, xviii, 416; 
Epictetus on, ii, 128 (34)» 130 
(39), 176 (170), 177 (174); Fer- 
dinand's lesson in, xlvii, 797; 
Goethe on, xix, 2>n\ Goethe's 
apothecary's lesson in, 418-19; 
instances of, given by Dante, xx, 
208-9; Kempis on, vii, 228, 259 
(6), 283-4, 290-2, 343; Manzoni 
on, xxi, loi; Marcus Aurelius, 
ii, 200 (1), 213 (3), 254 (63), 
255 (70), 258 (14), 267 (59), 271 
(11), 2'jz i27)y 276 (42), 278 
(3)» 293 (18), 285 (30), 291 (9), 
293 (18); Penn on, 1, 351 (119), 
356, 360 (234), 364 (294); in 
public office, 372-^', Rousseau on 
reason for, xxxiv, 285-6 (see also 
Bearing) 

Patmore, Coventry, Departure, xlii, 
1 1 58; Ruskin on, xxviii, 148 note 

Patriarchal Age, Hugo on, xxxix, 
356-7; Pope on the, xl, 438 

Patriarchs, Pascal on the, xlviii, 
211-12; the twelve, xliv, 442 (8-9) 

Patricians, Roman, ix, 306 note; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 195 (11) 

Patricius, father of St. Augustine, 
vii, 3, 156-^; St. Augustine and, 
25; conversion of, 158; death of, 
36; an unbeliever, 14 

Patrick, St., on Gaelic heroes, xxxii, 
144; Ossian and, 177-8; Purgatory 
of, 185-7 

Patriot, The, by Browning, xlii, 
1125 

Patriotism, Burke on, xxiv, 345; 
extreme, not fortunate, iii, 105; 
superior to friendship, ix, 23-4; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 5; Lowell on 
mock, xlii, 1452; Socrates on, ii, 
40; universality of, xli, 534 

Patroclus, and Achilles, ^schylus 
on, xxxii, 70; Homer on, xxii, 37, 
164, 3^3; Marlowe on, xlvi, 25 

Patron, in the ^neid, xiii, 192 

Patronage, Johnson on, xxxix, 217 

Paul, St., before Agrippa, xliv, 487- 
90; at Athens, 469 (15-34); in 



Antioch, 455 (25-6, 30), 457 (25), 

457 (i); at Antioch of Pisidia, 

458 (14-52); Augustine, St., on, 
vii, 121, 129; Bacon on, iii, 13, 
36; Barnabas and, xliv, 458, 465; 
at Bercea, 469 (10-14); conversion 
of, V, 145; vii, 129; xliv, 448 (3- 
19); at Corinth, 470; Dante on, 
XX, 268 note 14; editorial remarks 
on teachings of, xliv, 428; Emer- 
son on, V, 249; at Ephesus, xliv, 
472; Epistles to Corinthians, 
xlv, 499-544; Euripides quoted by, 
iv, 416; Felix and, xliv, 486 (24- 
27)', before Festus, 486-90; ac- 
cused before Gallio, 471 (12-17); 
on himself, xlv, 503 (1-5), 512 
(1-27), 522 (9-10), 527 (8-9), 
531-4, 535 (5), 539-43; in Iconium, 
xliv, 461 (1-5); at Jerusalem, 478- 
490; at council of Jerusalem, 463; 
Kempis on, vii, 313; learning of, 
iii, 209; visit to Limbo, xx, 10 
note 2; Luke and, xliv, 356; at 
Lystra, 461-2; in Macedonia, 475 
(1-5); in Melita, 493-4; at Mile- 
tus, 476 (17-36); Mill on, XXV, 
228, 252-3; misinterpretations of, 
xxxix, 48; missionary journeys, 
xliv, 458-78; Pascal on, xlviii, 
100 (283), 196 (588), 226 (670), 
228 (673, 674), 232 (683), 302 
(851), 304 (853), 357; in persecu- 
tion of Christians, xliv, 446 (3), 
448 (1-2); at Philippi, 466-8; in 
Rome, 494-5; Taine on epistles of, 
xxxix, 460; at Thessalonica, xliv, 
468 (1-9); at Troas, 475 (6-12) 

Paul III, Pope, Cellini and, xxxi, 
151-3, 165, 170-1, 186-8, i9i-3» 
211-12, 216-18, 222, 222, 232-3, 
235-6, 237-8, 242, 249-50, 254,255- 
6, 260, 260-1; Charles V and, 186- 
9; children of, 153 note 2, 193 
note; Copernicus to, xxxix, 55, 
59-60; election of, xxxi, 151 note 
3 ; escape from early imprison- 
ment, 233-4; Duke of Ferrara and, 
280; in sack of Rome, 77 note 

Paul Revere's Ride, xlii, 1348 

Paula, St. Hierome and, xv, 381 

Paulet, Sir Amyas, iii, 3 

Pauline, in Polyeucte, her dream 
referred to, xxvi, 71; begs Poly- 
eucte to stay, 74-5; with Strato- 
nice, tells her old love for Se- 
verus, 75-6; her marriage to Polv- 
eucte, 76-7', her dream, 77-8; 
learns Severus's approach, 78-80; 
with Severus, 83-6; with Polyeucte 
on his return, 87-8; her fears for 
Polyeucte, 90-1 ; learns Polyeucte 
a Christian, 92-4; pleads for Poly- 
eucte with father, 95-8; with Poly- 
eucte in prison, 103-7; asks Se- 
verus to save Polyeucte, 108; iast 



GENERAL INDEX 



345 



appeal for Polyeucte, 1 14-16; fol- 
lows him to death, 117; announces 
herself a Christian, 1 18-19; St. 
Victor on character of, 70 
Paulino, Cellini's boy, xxxi, 41, 43-4 
Paulinus, Valerius, letters to, ix, 

267, 288, 351, 372 
Paullus, Lucivis, and his sons, ix, 

175 

Paulus, Lucius, ^milius (d. 216 B. 
C), death of, ix, 'j'r, 

Paulus, Lucius, ^Emilius (d. 160 B. 
C.)> xxxii, 16 

Paulus, Passienus, Priscus and, ix, 
297-8 

Paulus, Sergius, xliv, 458 (7, 12) 

Paulus, the consul, and Caesar, xii, 
300 

Pausanias, the Spartan monarch, 
Cleonice and, xviii, 423; haughti- 
ness of, xii, 104-5; at Plataea, 91, 
94, 96, 97, 98, 99; treason of, 26 

Pavia, Bishop of (see Rossi, Giro- 
lamo de') 

Pavy, Salathiel, xl, 307 

Paxton Affair, Franklin in, i, 4 

Payen, Dr., on Montaigne, xxxii, 
109-1 1 

Pazzi, Carlino de, xx, 135 note 7 

Pazzi, Comiccione de', xx, 135 and 
note 6 

Pazzo, in Dante's Hell, xx, 54 and 
note 12 

Peace, Blake on, xH, 605, 606; Burns 
on, vi, 325; chamber of, in Pil- 
grim's Progress, xv, 57; "hath her 
victories," iv, 85; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 385, 406, 408; Milton on 
descent of, iv, 8-9; oversecurity 
in times of, vii, 278 (4) ; Pope 
on, xl, 443; the sovereign good, 
xlviii, 107 (299); temporal apd 
eternal, vii, 312 (2); Tennyson 
on, xlii, 1053-5, 1096-7; the true 
end of war, xiv, 394; Washington 
on, xliii, 260-1 

^eaceableness, Kempis on, vii, 251-2 

^eacock, Milton on the, iv, 241; 
sacred to Hera, viii, 176 note '>,'j 

Peacock and Jay, fable of, xvii, 
18 

j'EAcocK AND JuNO, fable of, xvii, 

24 
^earcy (see Percy) 
^EARL AND CocK, fable of, xvii, Q 
*ears, Darwin on improvement of, 

xi, 51; Locke on eating of, xxxvii, 

22 
'earson, Dr. G., xxxviii, 180, 209 
'easantry. Goldsmith on the, xii. 

523 
feasants, and lords, xlii, 1305 
"*easants* Sotie, in Faust, xix, 41-2 
Feasant's Wise Daughter, The. 

xvii, TQO 

i^eat, formation of, xxix, 304-5 



Pebrine, Pasteur on, xxxviii, 284 
Pecci, Pier Antonio, xxxi, 145 note 
Peckham, Sir George, xxxiii, 2'j'j 
Pectoralis Reservatio, xxxvi, 299, 

307 
Peculators, in Dante's Hell, xx, 87- 

8, 91-4 
Pedantry, Confucius on, xliv, 20 

(16); Hobbes on, xxxiv, 349; 

Locke on, xxxvii, 161; Swift on, 

xxvii, 100, 108 
Pediculi, Harvey on, xxxviii, 137 
Pedro of Castile, xxxix, 88 
Peebles, Rev. William, Burns on, vi, 

105, 373 note 
Peel, Sir Robert, blue books and, v, 

374; law reform and, xxv, 67-8; 

model Englishman, v, 410 
Peele, George, Paris and CEnone, 

xl, 221-2 
Peele Castle, Wordsworth on, xii, 

620 
Peerage, English, Carlyle on the, 

xxv, 388-9 
Peewit, habits of the, xxix, 127 
Peg-a-Ramsay, Bonie, vi, 549 
Pegasus at Waulockhead, vi, 345 
Peggy, by Ramsay, xl, 411-12 
Peggy Alison, Bonie, vi, 31-2 
Peiraeus, and Theoclymenus, xxii, 

294 
Peirson, Dr., on puerperal fever, 

xxxviii, 245 
Peisander, in Odyssey, xxii, 2(>i, 

3i3» 314 
Peisenor, the herald, xxii, 23^ 
Peisistratus, in Odyssey, xxii, 35, 

44, 47, 52, S3, 209, 211-14 ^^^ 
Pelagianism, Pascal on, xlviii, 172 

(520,275(777); Renan on, xxxii, 

180 
Pelagius, the monk, xxxv, 39i_ 
Pelasgians, gods of the, xxxiii, 30-1 
Pelasgos, king of the Apian land, 

viii, 186 note 61 
Peleus, father of Achilles, xxii, 

164-5 
Pelias, birth of, xxii, 158; in sack 

of Troy, xiii, 118 
Pelican, habits of the, xlvi, 256 note 

6; lesson of the, xv, 239; Shake- 
speare on the, xlvi, 170 
Pelides (see Achilles) 
Pelion, and Ossa, xxii, 160 
Pella, studdery of, xxxv, 346 
Pellean Conqueror, Alexander called, 

iv, 380 
Pelles, Kinp, Balin and, xxxv, 115- 

16; Sir Ector and, 215; at feast 

of Grail, 219, 220; grandsire of 

Galahad, 114; Launcelot and, 214; 

the sword and, 195-6 
Pellinore, father of Percivale, xxxv, 

TGI 

Pellisson, on French classical poetry, 
xxviii, 68 



346 



GENERAL INDEX 



Pelmus, death of, xlii, 351 
Pelopidas, and Epaminondas, xii, 80 
Peloponnesian War, xii, 67-9, 71-5 
Pelops, Cicero's letter to, xii, 246 
Pelorus, references to, iv, 96; xx, 

202 note 5 
Pembroke, in Edward II, xlvi, 14, 

19-23* 30-1, 36, 41-2, 46, 49 
Pembroke, Countess of, epitaph on, 

xl, 343 

Pembroke, Earl of, George Herbert 
and, XV, 385, 392 

Penagwog Indians, xliii, 155 

Penal Code, Marshall on, xliii, 234-5 

Penalties, Winthrop on prescribed, 
xliii, 96-106, 107-8, iio-ii 

Penance, Krishna on, xlv, 873, 876; 
Luther on, xxxvi, 265, 266; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 238 (698) 

Penarius, T., Cicero and, ix, 12 1-2 

Pencil, Verses Written with a, 
vi, 291-2 

Pendulum, Faraday on the, xxx, 11; 
Helmholtz on the, 195-6 

Penelope, in the Odyssey, the min- 
strel and, xxii, 18; web of, 24-5, 
271; learns plot against Telema- 
chus, 66-8; her dream, 69-70; grief 
of, 156; told of Telemachus's re- 
turn,' 233; rebukes the suitors, 
235-6; with Telemachus on his re- 
turn, 239, 240-2; sends for Ulysses, 
251-4; goes among the wooers, 
259-60; draws gifts from wooers, 
261-3; talks with Ulysses as a 
beggar, 268-76; relates her dream, 
280-1; prepares contest for the 
suitors, 282; longs to die, 285-6; 
at feast of the suitors, 294; brings 
forth bow of Ulysses, 295-7; wishes 
Ulysses to shoot, 303-4; told of 
Ulysses's return, 321-3; reunion 
with Ulysses, 323-30; fame of, 
336; Bacon on, iii, 23; Ruskin 
on, xxviii, 146 

P'eng, xliv, 21 note i 

Penguin, habits of the, xxix, 214; 
Hayes on, xxxiii, 284; wings of, 
xi, 355-6 

Penitence, David's prayer in, xliv, 
192-3; Luther on, xxxvi, 265, 266, 
383-4; Pascal on, xlviii, 223(661); 
Webster on, xlvii, 807 

Penitent, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 285-6, 287 

Penn, Thomas, i, 129, 167 

Penn, Vice-Admiral, xxxiv, 75, 76 

Penn, William, anecdote of, i, 113- 
14; Fruits of Solitude, 331-416; 
eaitor's remarks on Fruits of 
Solitude, 1, 34; Helmholtz de- 
scended from, xxx, 180; life of, 
i, 330; Pepys and, xxviii, 311; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 75-9 

Penni, Gian Francesco, xxxi, 35 
note 3, 40, 57 



Pennsylvania, in French and Indian 
War, i, 133-49; land conveyed to, 
by United States, xliii, 247; loans 
of, X, 492-3; paper money in colo- 
nial, 266-7; Penn and, i, 330; 
quarrels between Assembly and 
governors of, 132-4, i37, 144-5. 
156-8, 167-70, 174; settlement of, 
288; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 77 

Pennsylvania Assembly, on Frank- 
lin's plan of union, i, 131; in 
French War, 133-4, I39» 144*5; 
Philadelphia hospital and, 122-3; 
votes powder as "other grain," 
114-15 

Pennsylvania Gazette, i, 62, 96, 108 

Penology, correction the purpose of, 
ii, 150 (88); in Elizabethan Eng- 
land, XXXV, 321-2, 382-90; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 424; More on, xxxvi, 
151-2, 158-63, 223-4 

Pensions, Burke on, xxiv, 416-17; 
Ruskin on, xxviii, 127 

Pentapolin, and Alifamfaron, xiv, 
146-7 

Pentateuch, Hume on miracles of 
the, xxxvii, 414 

Pentheus, in the BACCHiE, opposes 
Dionysus, viii, 351; hears of bac- 
chanals, 358-9; orders arrest of 
Dionysus, 362; with Dionysus, 366- 
71; house destroyed, 376; deter- 
mines to go to bacchanals, 382-8; 
led by Dionysus, 390-4; death, 
397-400; Cadmus on, 411; Maenads 
and, -^schylus on, 116; Virgil on 
distraction of, xiii, 173 

Penthiselea, in ^neid, xiii, 92, 384 

People, Confucius on the, xliv, 5 
(5), 8 (19, 20), 26 (9); Lincoln 
on government by the, xliii, 441; 
Lincoln on justice of the, 342; 
Pascal on opinions of the, xlviii, 
113 (324), 114 i327)y "5 (328- 
30), 117 (335); Vane on sover- 
eignty of the, xliii, 138-40 (see 
also Populace, Public Opinion) 

Peor, Milton on, iv, 13 {22)^ 100 ^ 

Pepin, son of Charlemagne, xxxix, 
84, 85 

Pepin, son of Louis Debonair, xxxix, 
85-6 

Pepin, of Aquitaine, xxxix, 86 

Pepper-plant, Sindbad on the, xvi, 

295 
Pepys, Samuel, as a critic, xxviii, 
310; Diary of, 297-303; editorial 
remarks on Diary of, 286;^ xxxi, 
i; domestic troubles, xxviii, 314- 
15; Emerson on stories from, y, 
428; musical compositions, xxviii, 
309; old age of, 315-16; portrait 
by Hales, 303 ; on i)raise of God, 
V, 445-6; public services of, xxviii, 
296-7, 313; respectability of, 310- 
13; his unique position, 295-6; 



GENERAL INDEX 



347 



versatility of his desires and pleas- 
ures, 303-8; as a writer, 308-9 

pEPYs, Samuel, Essay on, Steven- 
son's, xxviii, 295-316 

Perception (s), Augustine, St., on 
inward, vii, 176-7; Berkeley on, 
xxxvii, 204-38, 242-4, 247, 249, 
250, 260, 263-7, 271-2, 275-6, 281, 
282-7, 300; Buddha on, xlv, 747; 
Hume on, xxxvii, 316-17, 434-6; 

• involuntary, Emerson on, v, 74-5; 
belongs to judgment, xlviii, 19; 
mediate and immediate, xxxvii, 
204-5, 236-7, 238; reality of, 206 

Perceval, Spencer, popularity of, v, 

384 
Percivale, Sir, in the Holy Grail, 
the sword and, xxxv, 113; at the 
tourney, 117; meeting with Gala- 
had, 134-5; at the hermitage, 135; 
with his aunt, 141-3; follows Gala- 
had, 143; at monastery at King 
Evelake, 143-5; encounter with 
men at arms, rescued by Galahad, 
145-6; the robber knight and, 146- 
7; how he got a horse, 147; how 
he helped the lion, 148; his dream, 
148-50; tempted by devil in wom- 
an's shape, 151-5; Gawaine on, 
164; virginity of, 168; meeting 
with Sir Bors, 188; meeting with 
Galahad, 190-1; meeting with sis- 
ter, 191; in ship of Faith, 191-2, 
199; at castle Carteloise, 200-2; 
sees hart and lions, 203-4; at 
castle of strange custom, 204-8; 
meets Galahad and Bors, 218; 
comes to castle of Carbonek, 218- 
19; fed of Holy Grail, 219-21; 
commanded to go to Sarras, 221; 
goes to Sarras, 222-^; in prison, 
223-4; farewell to Galahad, 225; 
becomes hermit, 225; death and 
' burial, 226; Renan on, xxxii, 165; 
sister of, xxxv, 190-200, 204-7, 
ii09, 210, 223 
^ercy. Lord Henry, in Scots' raid, 
xxxv, 84; loses pennon to Doug- 
las, 85; follows Douglas, 86-8; in 
battle of Otterburn, 89, 94 (see 
also ballads of Otterburn and 
Chevy Chase) 
*ercy. Sir Ralph, in Scots' raid, 
xxxv, 84, 86; at battle of Otter- 
burn, 89, 92; Earl March and, 
loi 

ercy's Reliques, Wordsworth on, 
xxxix, 342-4, 346 

erdiccas, Socrates and, ii, 297 (25) 
eredur, legend of, xxxii, 171-2, 
173; Renan on, 149, 154 
'erez, Anthony, xxxix, 92 
'erez, John, of Viedma, xiv, 447 
erez, Pero, the curate in Don 
Quixote, xiv, 48, 51-8, 241-9, 252, 
292-3 



Perez, Ruy, of Viedma, the Captive 
in Don Quixote, xiv, 401-44 

Perfection, as cause of beauty, xxiv, 
93-4; Descartes on attainment of, 
xxxiv, 12-13; degree of, in na- 
ture, xi, 213-15, 219; Franklin on 
moral, i, 82, 89; doctrine of in- 
nate tendency to (see Progressive 
Development) ; Kant on concep- 
tions of, xxxii, 373-4; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 330-1 ; Rousseau on attain- 
ment of, xxxiv, 219 

Perfections, of Buddhism, xlv, 607- 
}Z, 633, 635^^ 

Periandre, Moliere on, xxvi, 204-S 

Periboea, daughter of Eurymedon, 
xxii, 95; reference to, xxvi, 128 

Pericles, Life of, Plutarch's, xii, 
36-79 

Pericles, Alcibiades and, xii, no, 
112, 115; Anatagoras and, 56-7; 
V, 454; Aspasia and, xii, 62-3; 
Athens beautified by, 49-54; birth 
of, 38; character of, 78-9, 40-1; 
charges against, 53; Cimon and, 
46-7; convention of Greeks pro- 
posed by, 57-8; death, 77-8; do- 
mestic economy of, 56; domestic 
troubles, 75-6; education of, 40- 
i; Ephialtes and, 47; government 
of, 45-6, 48-9; his large head, 38- 
9; marriage of, 62-3; military con- 
duct of, 58-62, 63-7; Mill on, XXV, 
268; Newman on, xxviii, 41, 58; 
as an orator, ix, 217; in Pelopon- 
nesian War, xii, 67-75; in public 
life, 42-3; removed from com- 
mand, 75; sayings of, 44-5; his 
supremacy, 54-6 

Pericles, the younger, xii, yj ^^ 

Periclymenus, Homer on, xxii, 159 

Pericoli, Niccolo de', xxxi, 155 note 

Perier, Madame, letters to, xlviii, 
328, 331, 335, 347. 350, 351 ... 

Perier, M., country house of, xlvui, 
334 note; letters to, 335. 346,348 

Perigord, Bertrand, Cardinal of, 
xxxv, 34-5, 39-42, 46, 60 

Perigot and Willie's Roundelay, 
xl, 252-4 

Perillus, and the Sicilian bull, xx, 
112 note I 

Periodicals, Mill on, xxv, 63 

Peripatetics, Locke on the, xxxvii, 

Periphantes, tutor of Ascanius, xiii, 

200 
Periphas, in sack of Troy, xiii, 119 
Peris, good jinn, xvi, 9 note 
Perithoiis, in Tartarus, xiii, 231-2 
Perjury, punishment of, in old Eng- 
land, xxxv, 384 
Permanence, a word of degrees, v, 

I5S-6 
Pernambuco, Darwin on, xxix, 523-5 
Pernelle, Madame, in Tartuffe, 



348 



GENERAL INDEX 



leaves Orgon's house, xxvi, 189- 
96; refuses to credit Tartuffe's 
falseness, 269-71; convinced, 278, 
283 

Pero, Homer on, xxii, 159 

Perpendiculars, grander than in- 
clines, xxiv, 64 

Perpetua, in The Betrothed, with 
Abbondio, xxi, 21-4; with Renzo, 
30-1; on night of Renzo's intend- 
ed marriage, 118-20, 128-30; her 
anger, 190-1; in German invasion, 
494-502, 508-13; at castle of Un- 
named, 515-17; returns home, 517- 
20; dies in plague, 571 

Perpetual Motion, Helmholtz on, 
XXX, 219-20 

Perpignan, camp of, xxxviii, 15-17 

Perrault, discoverer of circulation 
of sap, xxxiv, 129 

Perry, English drink, xxxv, 301 

Perse, mother of Circe, xxii, 140 

Persecutions, Bacon on, iii, 14-15; 
Browne on, 291; Emerson on folly 
of , V, 103-4; examples of religious, 
XXV, 227-30; Hume on, xxxvii, 
417; Johnson on, xxv, 230; Mill 
on, 230-4; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 313 
note; Voltaire on, 73 

Persephone, Ceres's daughter, xli, 
896; hymn to, viii, 430; maid- 
servant of, 434 

Perseus, king of Macedon, xlviii, 
134 (409, 410)^ 

Perseus, son of Danae, worship of, 
in Chemmis, xxxiii, 44-5 

"Perseus," Cellini's statue of, xxxi, 
357 notes 3, 4; 369-70, 389, 390-4, 
395-9. 414. 416-19 

Perseverance, not genius, xxviii, 
385; proverb on, xv, 209; Zoro- 
aster on, V, 82 

Persia, cities of, shown to Jesus, 
iv, 395; Raleigh on, xxxix, 74, 
1 1 8- 1 9 

Persistency, Epictetus on, ii, 173 
(156); of heroism, v, 133 

Personal Cautions, Penn's, i, 364- 
365 

Personal Force, Emerson on, v, 209- 
10 

Personal Instruction, Newman on, 
xxviii, 32-8 

Personal Representation, Hare's, 
xxv, 165-6 

Personal Rights, equality of, v, 
250-1 

Personalities, defamatory, xxvii, 249- 
51; laudatory, 248-9 

Personality, and condition, Schiller 
on, xxxii, 252-5; extinction of 
(see Nirvana); reality of (see 
Ego) 

Personifications, Wordsworth on, 
xxxix, 288 

Persons, natural and artificial, xxxiv, 



430-4; as the object of govern* 

ment, v, 250-3 
Persons One Would Wish to Have 

Seen, xxvii, 281-95 
Persuasion, ^schylus on, viii, 153; 

Franklin on methods of, i, 19; 

Pascal on, xlviii, 11 (10), 406-17 
Pertelote, in Nun's Priest's Tale, 

xl, 36-49 
Pertinax, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 66, 

71; slain by Praetorian Guards, 67 
Pertness, Locke on, xxxvii, 113-14 
Peru, ancient, iii, 166-7; conquest 

of, xxxiii, 341; Darwin in, xxix, 

383-93; empire of, xxxiii, 327; 

Johnson on palaces of, xxxix, 236; 

Lopez on, xxxiii, 328-9; mines of, 

X, 180-1; religion of the Incas, 

xxxiii, 388; riches of, 314, 388 
Pescara, Macaulay on, xxvii, 409 
Pescara, Marquis, in Duchess of 

Malfi, xlvii, 769, 793, 794-5. 796- 

9, 809, 813, 815 
Pescennius, Cicero and, ix, 93 
Pestalozzi, on help, v, 23; Mill on 

work of, xxv, 163 
Pestilence, as a judgment of God, 

i, 246 
Pestilence, In Time of, xl, 265-6 
Petar, **hoist with own," xlvi, 159 
Peter, St., ^neas healed by, xliv, 

450 (32-5); with Ananias and 
Sapphira, 438-9; angel of, xv, 341- 
2; Bunyan on, 135, 136; chosen 
apostle, xliv, 373 (14); on circum- 
cision, 463 (7-11); Cornelius and 

451 (5-48) ; his defence, 454 (1-18); 
his denial of Jesus, 418 (34), 419 
54-62) : editorial remarks on teach- 
ings 01, 428; imprisoned, 436 (i- 
12), 456 (3-4); with Jesus, 382 
(45. sO. 384 (20, 28, 32-6), 395 
(41), 408 (28), 417 (8-13), 418 
(31-4); at Jesus's tomb, 424 (12); 
keys of, xx, 184 note 7; lame man 
cured by, xliv, 434 (1-16); Luther 
on keys of, xxxvi, 284-5; Malchus 
and, xlviii, 267 (744) ; miracles 
done by, xliv, 439 (15); in Para- 
dise, XX, 387-91, 400-2, 423; Paul, 
St., and, xxxvi, 286; on day of 
Pentecost, xliv, 431-3; in Samaria, 
446 (14-25); Tabitha and, 450(36- 
43); Tansillo on, xiv, 331 

Peter, Prince, of Arragon, Dante 

on, XX, 176 and note 12 
Peter III, of Arragon, Dante on, 

XX, 175 and note 10 
Peter the Great, standing army of, 

X, 469 
Peter Lombard, Sentences of, xxxvi, 

341 note 
Peter of Provence, Don Quixote on, 

xiv, 515, 516-17 
Peterborough, Lord, Berkeley and, 

xxxvii, 198; Dry den and, xiii, 430 



GENERAL INDEX 



349 



Petermann, the sacristan in Wil- 
HELM Tell, xxvi, 405, 406, 413, 
424, 427, 466 

Peters, Rev. Hugh, Burke on, xxiv, 
159-60, 214 

Peters, Secretary, i, 129 

Petition, right of, in United States, 
xliii, 207 (i) 

Petition of Right (English), Burke 
on, xxiv, 180 

Petrarch, Chaucer and, xxxix, 167; 
Hume on, xxvii, 234; on spirit of 
Italy, xxxvi, 90; Macaulay on, 
xxvii, 389; Milton on, xxviii, 180; 
Shelley on, xxvii, 364; Sidney on, 
9; Wordsworth on sonnets of, xli, 
697 

Petrella, Castle of, xviii, 280, 310 

Petrels, Darwin on, xxix, 307-8; 
habits of, xi, 189 

Petro, Granius, xii, 288 

Petronius, arbiter of revels to Nero, 
iii, 213; on poetry, xxvii, 114, 
117-18 

Petrucci, Pandolfo, xxxvi, 73; min- 
ister of, 79 

Pets, animal, Augustus on, xii, 36; 
Harrison on, xxxv, 370-1 

Pettinagno, Piero, xx, 200 note 6 

Peucinians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 
, 122-3 

Peyster, Colonel de. Epistle to, 

v^' 585 
Pezoro, Signior, xxxiii, 189, 191 
Pfeiffer, in Wilhelm Tell, xxvi, 

376-7 

Phaeax, and Alcibiades, xii, 119, 120 

Phaedimus, king of Sidon, xxii, 64 

PHiEDO, Plato's, ii, 45-114 

Phaedondes, ii, 47 

Phaedra, Racine's, xxvi, 125-85; Dry- 
den on, xviii, 13-14; editorial re- 
marks on, xxvi, 124 

Phaedra, in Hippolytus, daughter of 
Minos, her love for Hippolytus, 
viii, 288 ; song of her woes, 292- 
3; her illness, 294-303; tells her 
shame, 304-6; urged to love on, 
307-9; hears Hippolytus tempted, 
311-12; anger at nurse, ^16; de- 
termines to die, 317-18; death of, 
319-20; her innocence told by 
Artemis, 341 

Phaedra, in Ph^dra, apparent hatred 
of Hippolytus, xxvi, 126-7, i3^-7f 
her malady, 130-4; confesses love 
for Hippolytus, 135-7; hears of 
Theseus's death, 137-8; urged to 
live for son, 138-9; interview with 
Hippolytus, 147-51 ; her son chosen 
king, 152; her grief, 153-4; sends 
to offer Hippolytus the crown, 
155; her prayer to Venus, 156; 
learns Theseus's return, 156-8; 
urged to accuse Hippolytus, 158- 
9; tells Theseus his wrong, 159- 



60; begs Theseus to spare Hippol- 
ytus, 168-9; learns love of Hip- 
polytus for Aricia, 169-73; de- 
nounces CEnone, 173-4; ^ranope 
tells despair of, 179; confesses to 
Theseus, 183-4 

Phaedra, in Homer's Hades, xxii, 
160; Virgil on, xiii, 226, 269 

Phaedrus, translator of -^sop, xvii, 2 

Phaethon, steed of the sun, xxii, 327 

Phaethusa, the nymph, xxii, 172 

Phaeton, references to, xx, 74, 358 
note i; xlvi, 14 

Phalaris, in ^neid, death of, xiii, 
323 ^ 

Phalaris, the tyrant, bull of, iii, 320; 
XX, 112 note i; Marcus Aurelius 
on, ii, 212 (16) 

Phanias the Lesbian xii, 18 

Pharamond, in Philaster, suitor 
of Arethusa, xlvii, 639-40; with 
the King and Arethusa, 641-3; 
denounced by Philaster, 644-7; 
with Arethusa and Philaster, 654- 
5; with Galatea, 657-9; and Meg- 
ra, 659-61; his fault reported to 
Arethusa, 661-2; before his lodg- 
ing, 663-4; caught with Megra, 
664-7; at the hunt, 684, 685, 689- 
90; finding of Arethusa, 694-5; 
finds Bellario wounded, 697-8; 
arrests Philaster, 698-9; taken 
prisoner by citizens, 705, 707, 708- 
10; rescued by Philaster, 711-12; 
sent home, 718 

Pharaoh (of Exodus), Mohammed 
on, xlv, 892, 898, 902, 913-14 
932, 944-6 

Pharaoh (time of Joseph), dreams 
of, xl, 43; Joseph and, xliv, 442 
do) 

Pharaoh, wife of, Mohammed on, 
xlv, 1008 

Pharisaism, leads to superstition, iii, 
48 

Pharisees, beliefs of the, xliv, 483 
(8); Bunyan on, xv, no; Jesus 
on the, xliv, 377 (30-5), 39i (37- 
44), 403 (14-17), 407 (10-14); 
Pascal on the, xlviii, 292 (829), 
295 (839), 298, 299 

Pharnabazus, Alcibiades and, xii, 
149, 150; Plutarch on, 138, 139, 
140, 142 

Pharnaces, and Caesar, xii, 317 

Pharnapates, Plutarch on, xii, 360 

Pharos, death of, xiii, 337 

Pharsalia, battle of, xii, 310-14; 
Antony at, 340 

Phebe, daughter of Gaius, xv, 277-8, 
286 

Phegeus, death of, xiii, 408 

Phelps, Oliver, xliii, 247 

Phemius, in Odyssey, xxii, 13, 18, 
245» 316-17 



350 



GENERAL INDEX 



Pheraeus, Alexander, xxvii, 30 
Pheres, birth of, xxii, 158; death 

of, xiii, 340 
Pheros, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 53-4 
Phidias, accusation and death of, 
xii, 69-70; beautifies Athens, 51; 
Epictetus on, works of, ii, 138 
(61); the "Jo'^^" °^' ^^"' 1299; 
statue of Minerva, xii, 52-3 
Philadelphia, city-watch of, i, 103; 
fire company formed by Franklin, 
103-4; Library, founded by Frank- 
lin, 69-70, 77-79; Longfellow on, 
xlii, 1408; public hospital estab- 
lished, i, 1 2 1-3; situation of, v, 
347; streets of, improved by 
Franklin, i, 124-5: University of 
(see University 01 Pennsylvania) 
Philadelphia Catechism, xxiii, 21 
Philadelphia Experiment, the, i, 155 
Philadelphus, name of, xii, 162 note 
Philagrus, tutor of Nepos, xii, 248 
Philanthropy, Bacon on, iii,_ 34-6; 
Emerson on false, v, 67; Epictetus 
on true, ii, 183 (18); Marcus 
Aurelius on, 211 (11); moral 
worth of, xxxii, 328-9 
Philarch, officer of Utopia, xxxvi, 

187 

Philaster, Beaumont and Fletcher's, 
xlvii, 639-718; remarks on, 638 

Philaster, in Philaster, heir to 
Sicily, xlvii, 640; with king and 
Pharamond, 643-7; with the cour- 
tiers, 647-8; sent for by princess, 
648-9; Arethusa on, 649-50; scene 
with Arethusa, 650-3; with Phara- 
mond, 653-5; Bellario and, 655-7; 
with courtiers, hears Arethusa 
faithless, 670-4; questions Bellario, 
674-8; with Arethusa, concerning 
Bellario, 680-2; in the woods, 686; 
meeting with Bellario, 686-7; finds 
Bellario with Arethusa, 691-2; at- 
tempts to kill Arethusa, 693-4; his 
regrets, 695; wounds Bellario, 
696; saves Bellario, 698-9; in 
arrest, 699; summoned to death, 
700; in prison 700-2; married to 
Arethusa, 703; condemned by king, 
704-5; sent to quiet rebels, 707-8; 
rescues Pharamond, 710-12; in 
final scene, 712-14, 716-18 

Pliilip, the apostle, xliv, 373 (14), 
430 (13) 

Philip, the deacon, xliv, 441 (5), 
446 (5-13), 447 (26-40), 478 (8) 

Philip, tetrarch of Ituraea, xliv, 365 
(i) 

Philip II, King of Macedon, Alex- 
ander and, xii, 37; v, 329; De- 
metrius and, iii, 53; Demosthe- 
nes and, xii, 207, 210-14; death 
of, 214-15; dream of, iii, 95-6; 
forces of, xxxvi, 50; love of 



horseraces, xxvii, 31; Marcus Au- 
relius on, ii, 274 (29) ; the poor 
woman and, v, 273; Thebes and, 
xxxvi, 44 

Philip II, King of Spain, Drake and, 
xxxiii, 133; Elizabeth and, 234; 
the Netherlands and, xix, 249- 
255-6; Raleigh on, xxxix, 91-3; 
wealth of, xxxiii, 319, 329-30 

Philip III, King of France, Dante 
on, XX, 175 and note 7 

Philip IV, King of France, beauty 
of, iii, 112; Pope Clement and, 
XX, 81 note 6, 369 note 7, 175 
and note 9, 228 notes 4 and 5, 
230 notes 15 and 16, 281 note 
15 

Philip IV, King of Spain, Calderon 
and, xxvi, 3 

Philip y. King of Macedon, Machi- 
avelli on, xxxvi, 83; the Romans 
and, 12, 13 

Philip VI, King of France, in Crecy 
campaign, xxxv, 10, 15-16, 18-30 

Philip of Burgundy, xix, 246 

Philippa, Queen, Froissart and, 
xxxv, 3 

Philippi, battle of, xii, 333; Antony 
at, xyiii, 35 

Philippi, Dr. A., xxxviii, 426-7 

Philippine Islands, cession of, xliii, 
470-7 

Philippus, stepfather of Octavius, 
xii, 263 

Philips, Ambrose, To Charlotte 

PULTENEY, xl, 45 1-2 

Philiscus, at Athens, xxviii, 60 
Philistines, festival of, iv, 429-30; 

Sarnson and, 425 
Philitis, the shepherd, xxxiii, 66 
Phillada Flouts Me, xl, 389 
Phillida and Coridon, xl, 199 
Phillips, Erasmus, in Hazlitt's dis- 
cussion, xxvii, 289 
Phillips, Wendell, Mill on, xxv, 171 
Phillis, Milton on, iv, 33 
Phillis, by Lodge, xl, 220 
Phillis the Fair, by Burns, vi, 497 
Phillis the Queen of the Fair, 

vi, 500 
Philly and Willy, vi, 541 
Philo, the Academic, xii, 226 
Philo, the Jew, xlviii, 210 
Philoctetes, in Odyssey, xxii, 39, 

110, 289-90, 300-1, 305, 310-20 
Philolaus, on motion of earth, xxxix, 

58; Plato on, ii, 49 
Philologus, Cicero and, xii, 267; 

death of, 268 
Philology, an historical science, 

xxviii, 245-6; important results of, 

238 (see also Language) 
Philomeleides, and Ulysses, xxii, 57 
Philomela, Milton on, iv, 36; story 

of, XX, 215 note i 
Philon, the shepherd, xl, 202-3 



GENERAL INDEX 



351 



PHILONOUS AND HyLAS, DIALOGUES 
OF, xxxvii, 199-302 

Philopoemon, Prince of Achaia, 
xxxvi, 51-2 

Philosophers, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
67-9; Burns on, vi, 354; charges 
against, ii, 9-10; Cicero on, xlviii, 
123 note 4; Comte's rule of, xxv, 
137-8; Dante on unskilful, xx, 
344; death and, ii, 53-7; Epictetus 
on, 142, 143, 152, 156, 158-62; 
French, Burke on, xxiv, 259-60; 
Harvey on true, xxxviii, 66; the 
hereafter desired by, ii, 76-7; 
Marcus Aurelius on true, 219 
(30); moral, Sidney on, xxvii, 17- 
2i, 24-5; Pascal on, xlviii, 10, 140 
(430), 142, 167 (503), 172-3; atti- 
tude toward pleasure and pain, ii, 
75-6; poets compared with in use- 
fulness, xxvii, 367-70; Rousseau 
on, xxxiv, 248-9; sacred and lit- 
erary, V, 148; Sidney on, xxvii, 
16; statesmen and, Plutarch on, 
xii, 56 

Philosophers, English, xxxvii 

Philosophers, French and English, 
xxxiv 

Philosopher's Candles, xxx, 128-9 

Philosopher's Stone, Sir Epicure 
Mammon on the, xlvii, 543; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 153 

Philosophia Prima, xxxiv, 377 

Philosophic Radicalism, Mill on, xxv, 
71-3 

Philosophic Radicals, in Parliament, 
xxv, 126-8, 138-9 

Philosophical Essays, xxxii 

Philosophise, That to, is to 
Learne How to Die, xxxii, 9-28 

■Philosophy, Arnold on our, xxviii, 
66; Athenian, Milton on, iv, 406- 
7; authority and, xxxix, 105, 128- 
9; Berkeley on innovations in, 
xxxvii, 281; Browne on righteous- 
ness of, iii, 276-7; Byron on, xviii, 
431-2; Carlyle on, xxv, 355; Cicero 
on, ix, 46; Cowley on, xxvii, 65; 
Dante's allegory on, xx, 223 ; Des- 
cartes on study of, xxxiv, 8, 10; 
empirical and pure, xxxii, 317-18; 
as an employment, x, 15-16; Epic- 
tetus on, ii, 132 (56), 143 {72):, 
need of, in ethics, xxxii, 335-6, 
338-40; extreme limits of prac- 
tical, 389-90, 394; Faustus on, xix, 
200, 203 ; Hume on different spe- 
cies of, xxxvii, 305-1 5». 329. 330. 
337-8; irreligion and, iii, 44; Kant 
on divisions of, xxxii, 317; knowl- 
edge of consequences, xxxiv, 376; 
liberty needed by, xxxvii, 416-17, 
429; magic and, iiL, 296; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 205 (17), 227 (9), 

\ 235,(12); Montaigne on study of, 
xxxii, 50-2, 54-6; "more things 
than dreamt of in," xlvi, 112; 



Plato on true, xxxii, 39; practical, 
best, ix, 205; Raleigh on, xxxix, 
115; reading course in, 1, 31-40; 
religion and, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 
109-10; school and practical, xxxyi, 
173-6; several branches of, xxxiv, 
376-7; Socrates on, ii, 48, 73, 75- 
6; Taine on, xxxix, 453, 454* 455" 
6; Tasso on, xxxii, 34-5; trans- 
cendental, 320; of various races, 
xxxix, 443, 444 ^ . .. o 

Philostratus, and Octavius, xn, 398 

Philotas, on Antony, xii, 355-6 

Philotimus, Cicero on, ix, 117, 155 

Phineas, Burns on, vi, 172 

Phinehas, xliv, 284 (30) 

Phlebotomy, Harvey on, xxxviii, 121, 
122, 123 

Phlegethon, river, xiii, 229; source 
of the, XX, 62 

Phlegyas, Dante on, xx, 33; in Tar. 
tarus, xiii, 232 

Phocion, Carlyle on, xxv, 394-5 ; 
courage and honesty of, xii, 208; 
death of, xxvii, 24; on the event 
of the battle, v, 134; Landor on, 
330; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 292 
(13); as orator, xii, 205 

Phocylides, Sidney on, xxvii, 9, 14 

Phoebe, name of Diana, viii, 115; 
xxxix, 66 

Phoebe, the deaconess, ix, 427 note 

Phoebus, Milton on, iv, 24 (4), 48, 
76; wain of, 51 (see also Apollo) 

Phoenicians, circumcision among, 
xxxiii, 51 

Phoenix, ^sop on the, xvii, 304; 
Dante on, xx, 102; Herodotus on, 
xxxiii, 38-9; Milton on, iv, 190, 
462; Virgil on the Greek, xiii, 129, 
191 

Pholus, Dante on, xx, 52; death 
of, 407 

Phorcys, Homer on, xxii, 11 

Phorkides, the, viii, 183 

Phormisius, pupil of ^schylus, viii, 
448 

Phosphorescent Insects, Darwin on, 
xxix, 40-1 

Phosphoresence, of the sea, xxix, 
176-8 

Phosphorus, combustion of, in oxy- 
gen, xxx, 144; flame of, 112 

Phosphorus (youth), statue of, v, 
179 

Photographic Light, xxx, 272 

Phraates, king of Parthia, in war 
with Antony, xii, 363, 364, 366, 
370; in war with Media, 27^ 

Phrontis, the pilot, xxii, 41 

Phrygians, antiquity of the, xxxiii, 
5-6 . . ^ 

Phrynichus, accuser of Alcibiades, 
xii, 128-9, 135-6 

Phyllis, Dante on, rx, 324 note 
30 



VOL. L — HC (12) 



SS2 



GENERAL INDEX 



Phylogeny, defined, xi, 472 

Physcon, name of, xii, 162 note 

Physic (see Medicine) 

Physical Science, Channing on study 
of, xxviii, 338-40; Descartes on, 
xxxiv, 50; Faraday on, xxx, 88; 
Hiixley on, xxviii, 218-30; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 24 (67), 446-8 

Physical Training, of children, xxxvii, 
10-28; Milton on, iii, 256-9; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 41, 57, 59; for 
women, xxviii, 15 1-2 

Physicians, atheism of, iii, 265 note; 
Bacon on best, 86; early guilds 
of, xxxviii, 2, 3; Hippocrates on, 
2, 3, 4-5; Pascal on costumes of, 
xlviii, 36 

Physics (see Natural Philosophy) 

Physiognomy, beauty of the, xxiv, 
1 01; Browne on, iii, 326-7; of 
religious sects, v, 351; science of, 
299; Webster on, xlvii, 728 

Physiology, papers on, xxxviii, 79- 

147 
Phytophagic Species, xi, 64-5 
Pia, of Sienna, xx, 167 and note 
Piazza, the anointer of Milan, xxi, 

4-5 
Picard, M,, xxxiv, 118 
Piccarda, in Paradise, xx, 296-8 and 

note 
Piccolomini, Alfonso, xxxi, 278 note i 
Pickering, Timothy, xliii, 246 
Pickett's Charge at Gettysburg, xliii, 

403-15, 427 
Pickthank, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 99-100 
Pico, Don Andres, xxiii, 415 
Pico, Galeotto, xxxi, 305 note i 
Pictet, Prof., on birds, xi, 355; on 
chalk formations, 383-4; palaeon- 
tology, work on, 356 
Picture-books, Locke on, xxxvii, 141 
Picture of Little T. C, xl, 379- 

81 
Pictures, less affecting than words, 
xxiv, 53-7; moving, in New At- 
lantis, iii, 188 
Picus, son of Saturn, xiii, 245 ; 

Circe and, 249-50 
Picus Mirandola, xv, 327 
Piedmont, Prince of, xxxviii, 37 
PiEMONT, Sonnet on Massacre of, 

iv, 86 
Pienne, M. de, xxxviii, 26 
Pierce, Mr., on wolves, xi, 103 
Piercy (see Percy) 
Pierino, and Cellini, xxxi, 17-20 
Pierres, Mosen, xiv, 515 
Pierus, daughters of, xx, 147 note i 
Pietra, Nello della, xx, 167 note 
Piety, of act, speech and mind, xlv, 
874-5; Carlyle on, xxv, 403; Dry- 
den on, xiii, 25; Epictetus on true, 
ii, 174 (163); false, a double sin, 
xlviii, 321; Herbert on decay of. 



XV, 411-12; Hindu conception of, 
xlv, 809-10, 827; Pascal on, xlviii, 
94 (255), 165 (496), 361; Penn 
on, i, 377 (470) ; Segrais on, xiii, 

25 
Piety, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

52-3, 242-3 
Piety, Early, xlv, 577^ 
Piffero, Ercole del, xxxi, 17 
Pigeons, analogous variations of, xi, 
168; breeds of domestic, 37-9; cir- 
cumstances favorable to breeding 
of, 55; correlation in, 30, 156; 
descent of, 39, 43, 52-3; in Eliza- 
bethan England, xxxv, 353-4; in 
history, xi, 43; instincts of tum- 
blers, 268; reversion of, 169-70 
Pigray, the surgeon, xxxviii, 51, 53 
Pigs, held abominable in Egypt, 

xxxiii, 28-9 
Pi Hsi, xliv, 60 (7) 
Pilate, Pontius, governor of Judaea, 
xliv, 365 (i); and the Galilaeans, 
396 (i); and Jesus, 420 (1-7), 421 
(11-25); Pascal on, xlviii, 267 
(744), 278 (791) 
Pilgrimage, Raleigh's, xl, 206-7 
Pilgrimages, Luther on, xxxvi, 313- 

15, 325-6; Milton on, iv, 150 
Pilgrim's Progress, Bunyan's, xv, 
5-324; authorship of, 323-4; Frank- 
lin on, i, 14, 23; remarks on, 
XV, 4; 1, 34; widespread influence 
of, 173-4 
Pilgrims, Lowell on the, xiii, 1451 
Pilgrims of the Night, xlv, 584-5 
Pillar of Cloud, xlv, 581 
Pilli, Raffaello, de', xxxi, 388, 445-6 
Pillows, in old England, xxxv, 314 
Piloto, Cellini on, xxxi, 65 note, 150 
Pin, M. du, Burke on, xxiv, 359; on 

French army, 359-62 
Pinabel of Sorrence, xlix, 109, 201, 

202-5 
Pincheira, Darwin on, xxix, 281-2 
Pindar, Alexander and, iv, 80; 
Browning on, xli, 957; the English, 
xiii, 65; Hiero and, xxvii, 41; 
Horace on, 194; house of, spared, 
iv, 80; Hugo on, xxxix, 358; Sid- 
ney on, xxvii, 31 
Pindaric Line, Dryden on the, xiii, 

56 
Pindarus, freedman of Cassius, xii, 

350 
Pindenissus, siege of, ix, 143 
Pineda, Juan de, iii, 289 note 
Pine-tree, Emerson on the, xiii, 

1305-13 
Pinkney, Edward C, Health by, 

xxviii, 394-5 
Pins, manufacture of, x, lo-ii 
Piombo, Sebastian del, xxxi, loi 

note 6, 118 note 2 
Pioneers! O Pioneers! xiii, 1486-90 
Pious Editors Creed, xiii, 145^-4 



GENERAL INDEX 



353 



Pipes at Lucknow, xlii, 1437 

Pippa's Song, xlii, 11 15 

Piracy, punishment of, in old Eng- 
land, XXXV, ^87; under control of 
Congress, xliii, 172, 197 (10) 

Piraeus, companion of Telemachus, 
xxii, 222, 240 

Piraeus, port of, established by 
Themistocles, xii, 2^ 

Pirithoiis, Racine on, xxvi, 161 

Pisa, and Florence, xxxvi, 19 

Pisistratus, and his daughter's lover, 
XX, 208 note 4; Emerson^ on, v, 
249; Macaulay on, xxvii, 418; 
Newman on, xxviii, 40; Solon 
and, ix, 'j2 

Piso, Calpurnius, Pliny on, ix, 287-8 

Piso, Julius, ix, 432 

Piso, Caesonius, Lucius Calpurnius, 
Cicero on, iii, 68; Cicero and, xii, 
252; Clodius and, 250-1; made 
consul, 285 

Piso, son-in-law of Cicero, xii, 252 

Pissuthnes, the Persian, xii, 63-4 

Pitcher and Crow, fable of, xvii, 

33 

Pitigliano, Count of, xxxvi, 45; Cel- 
lini on, xxxi, 305 note i 

Pitt, William, Earl of Chatham, 
George II and, xxiv, 349 

Pitt, William, and Burke, xxiv, 400; 
Burns on, vi, 55^6, 169, 218, 433; 
Mazzini on, xxxii, 404 

Pittacos, maxim of marriage, viii, 
187 note 

Pittacus, on forgiveness, ii, 153 
(96) 

Pittheus, and Hippolytus, xxvi, 166, 
287 

Pity, Bacon on, iii, 10, 36; Blake 
on, xn, 605, 606; Burke on pas- 
sion of, xxiv, 42; envy and, iii, 
26; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 356; lan- 
guage of, 358; love and, xl, 403; 
a natural feeling, xxxiv, 192-5; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 154 (452); with- 
out power to relieve, xviii, 177 

Pizarro, Francisco, xxxiii, 313, 329; 
Raleigh on, 327, 341 

Place, independence of, v, 132; no 
sanctity in, iv, 343;^ showeth the 
man, iii, 32; virtue indifferent to, 
xii, 197 

Ptagiarism, Montaigne on, xxxii, 32 

Plagues, of Egypt, Milton on, iv, 
350 

Plain Truth, Franklin's pamphlet, i, 
1 10 

Planarise, Darwin on, xxix, 37-8 

Plancus, Munatius, xii, 347, 380 

Planets, Bacon on motion of, iii, 
39; Berkeley on the, xxxvii, 245; 
cause of movements of, xxxiv, 115- 
20, 122-3; Copernicus on motions 
of the, xxxix, 57-60; Dante on 
the, XX, 383; Dante on motions 



of, 326 and note 3 ; Locke on mo- 
tion of, xxxvii, 166; Marlowe on 
movements of, xix, 218-19; Milton 
on motion of the, iv, 249, 311; 
Raleigh on the, xxxix, 113; Rous- 
seau on movement of the, xxxiv, 
255-6 

Plans, road long from, to acts, xxvi, 
233 

Planta, Pompeius, governor of 
Egypt, ix, 378 

Plantain, Biggs on the, xxxiii, 244 

Plantations, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 
89-92 

Plants, advantages of diversity of 
character, xi, 124; of all seasons, 
iii, 118-19; breeding of, xi, 47-8; 
checks on increase of, 82-5; com- 
plex relations with animals, 85- 
92; distribution of, 405-11 ; divided 
into groups, 142-3; domestic, de- 
scent of, 34-5, 44; experiments on, 
in New Atlantis, iii, 183-4; fer- 
tilization of, xi, 110-13; most fra- 
grant, iii, 119; fresh-water, distri- 
bution of, xi, 429-31; habits of, 
hereditary ,^ 152; rate of increase 
of, 79-82; insects and, relations of, 
106-7, 108-9, iio-ii; live on car- 
bonic acid, XXX, 175-6; sexes in, 
separation of, xi, 107; the young 
of the world, v, 240 

Plastering, in Elizabethan England, 
XXXV, 309 

Plastic Arts, Goethe on, xxxix, 268- 
9, 271, 273, 274, 275, 278-9 

Plata River, Darwin on the, xxix, 
155; Drake at, xxxiii, 212 

Plataea, annual sacrifice at, xii, 102- 
3; battle of, 21; campaign of, 91- 

lOI 

Plathane, in The Frogs, viii, 435-6 
Platinum, weight of, xxx, 9 note i, 

52 
Plato, Academy of (see Academy of 
Plato); Apology of, ii, 3-29; on 
censorship of books, iii, 216-17; 
on children, xxxii, 54; on children 
of the gods, V, 202; Christianity 
and, xxvii, 363; Cicero on, xii, 
245; Crito of, li, 31-44; in Dante's 
Limbo, XX, 20; Dialogues of, re- 
marks on, 1, 31-2; Dionysius and, 
iii, 204, 216; xxvii, 41; on dis- 
ease, xxxiv, 176; ideas of educa- 
tion, xxxii, 58; Emerson on, v, 
249; on princijDle of equality, 
xxvii, 363; on faith and sincerity, 
xxxii, 39; four flatteries of, xii, 
356 note; on freedom of the will, 
li,^ 169 (142); on happiest state, 
xii, 271 and note; on indifference 
of places, ii, 284 (23); influence 
of, on English thought, v, 452-3; 
on kings and philosophers, xxxvi, 
166, 167; on life and death, ii. 



354 



GENERAL INDEX 



250 (35), 251 (44, 45); life and 
works, 1-2; Lowell on, xxviii, 465; 
man defined by, xlviii, 432; Mill 
on, XXV, 19-20, 35; Montaigne 
on Commonwealth of, xxxii, 34; 
Montaigne on Dialogues of, 97-8; 
Montesquieu on, 123; More on 
Republic^ of, xxxvi, 175; Newman 
on, xxviii, 58-9; old age of, ix, 
50; Pascal on, xlviii, 14, 80 (219), 
116, 273 (769); Ph^do of, ii, 45- 
114; on pleasure, ix, 62; on the 
poets, xiii, 33, 40-2; preferences 
of, xxxix, 98; Sainte-Beuve on, 
xxxii, 137; school of, xxviii, 60-1; 
Shelley on, xxvii, 350; shows of, 
xii, 80; Sidney on, xxvii, 9, 26; 
on socialism, xxxvi, 177; at Soc- 
rates's trial, ii, 21, 25; on the 
soul, xxxiv, 104; on souls in the 
stars, XX, 300 note 3; on specu- 
lation, V, 454; Spenser on, xxxix, 
65; spirits, belief in, iii, 297 (33); 
on training of body and mind, 
xxxii, 57; two horses of the soul, 
xii, 362 note; on the universe, 
V, 321; on viewing life, ii, 251 
(48); wealth of, xxviii, 60, 142; 
on wise men and the public, 
xxxvi, 176; on words and deeds, 
xl, 31; on the world, xxxix, no 
Plato's Year, iii, 144 note, 270 note 
Platonism, Emerson on, v, 453 
Platonists, on Christ, vii, 1 12-13; 

Mill on title of, xxv, 20 
Plautianus, and Severus, iii, 71 
Plautus, the Casina, of, xxvii, 405; 
Dryden on, xxxix, 182; Hugo on, 
365; in Limbo, XX, 238; M^n<rc/imj 
of, xxxix, 239; Montaigne on, 
xxxii, 93; Sidney on, xxvii, 47, 48 
play, of adults, xxxvii, 188; of chil- 
dren, 95, 1 18-19, 121; instinct of, 
Schiller on, xxxii, 262-6, 307-9; 
out-door, xxxvii, 15 
Play, The End of the, xlji, 1099 
Playhouses, Swift on, xxvii, 128 
Playthings, Locke on, xxxvii, 119- 

21, 138-9 
Pleading, Pliny on conciseness in 
legal, ix, 214; Shelley on, xviii, 
351-2 
Plcasanton, Gen., at Gettysburg, 
xliii, 380-1, 383, 393, 422; Haskell 
on, 382 
Pleasing, Pascal on art of, xlviii, 409 
Pleasure, analysis of, ii, 289 (2) ; 
Archytas on sensual, ix, 60; 
Berkeley on idea of, xxxvii, 207, 
211; Burke on standards of, xxiv, 
11-12; Cicero on, ix, 60-1; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 5 (i); Cowper on, 
xii, 548; effects of cessation of, 
xxiv, 34-5; as the end of life, 
xliv, 340 (i), 342 (12-13, 24), 346 
(18), 350 (i5)» 351 (7-10); xlv. 



87 1 ; Epictetus on indifference to, 
ii, 118 (2); Epictetus on use of, 
150 (86); of farmers, ix, 64-7; 
Goldsmith on lowly, vi, 116; high- 
est, after danger or pain, vii, 127- 
8; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 353; of the 
imagination, xxiv, 16-22; in imi- 
tations, xxxix, 234; inseparable 
from morality, v, 95; of the judg- 
ment, xxiv, 22-4; Keats on, xii, 
894, 896; Kempis on worldly, vii, 
284 (4) ; Krishna on, xlv, 879-80; 
of love, xxiv, 37, 38-9; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 203 (12), 205 
(16), 231 (26), 241 (34)» 258 
(10); may be spared, iv, 218; of 
melancholy, 35-9; Mill on, xxv, 
36; of mirth, iv, 31-5; Montaigne 
on, xxxii, 9-10; More on, xxxvi, 
207, 208-16; not the end of man, 
ii, 259 (19); of old age, ix, 61- 
4; in one thing, ii, 234 (7); the 
order of nature, xii, 659; pain in 
relation to, xxiv, 30-1; pain and, 
Shelley on, xxvii, 369; pain and, 
Socrates on, ii, 48; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 66 (181), 376, 420-1; Pas- 
cal on principles of, 409; Pascal 
on yielding to, 62 (i6o)j philo- 
sophic attitude toward, ii, 75-6; 
physical action of, xxiv, 126; phys- 
ical causes of, 127-35; Pope on, 
xl, 428, 429; power and, xxiv, 57; 
rare, ii, 183 (11); removal of , not 
like positive pain, xxiv, ^i-S, 37 't 
of the senses, 13-16; sensibility to, 
24-5; of society, 37-46; two kinds 
of, xxvii, 368; Utopian idea of, 
xxxvi, 199; Vaughan on innocent, 
i, jy, wants and. Goldsmith on, 
xii, 538; a weaker idea than pain, 
xxiv, 36; Wordsworth on principle 
of, xxxix, 294-5 

Pleasure Arising from Vicissitude, 
xl, 472-3 

Pleiad, Taine on the, xxxix, 452 

Pleiades, called Atlantic Sisters, iv, 
311; mentioned in J[ob, xliv, 86, 
136; Milton on the, iv, 239; Ten- 
nyson on the, xlii, loio 

Pliable, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 
15-21, 72-3 

Pliant, Dame, in The Alchemist, 
xlvii, 592-4, 598-601, 607-8, 626, 
631* 634-5 

Pliny the Elder, on bees, xxxv, 365; 
on breeding among savages, xi, 
48;^ death of, ix, 194, 298-301; 
habits of, 243-5; on lead mines of 
Wales, xxxv, 340; Maecenas and, 
xliii, 30; on marl of Britain, xxxv, 
324; on pears, xi, 51; on pigeons 
in Rome, 43; Sainte-Beuve on, 
xxxii, 121; on sugai, xxxv, 290; 
Tacitus and, xxxiii, 94; on torrid 
zone, xxxix, 112; on the viper. 



GENERAL INDEX 



355 



XXXV, 362 note, 364 note; works 
of, ix, 242-3 
Pliny, the Younger, on his abstemi- 
ousness in sickness, ix, 312-13; 
attends recitations, 209; as augur, 
263; as counsel for Baetica, 331-2; 
on boldness in writings, 364-7; 
on the Christians, ix, 425-7; clem- 
ency of, 361-2; Corellius on, 269; 
his dealings with merchants, 332- 
4; description of inundation, 342; 
dream 01, 212; equal hospitality 
of, 225-6; fame of, during his life, 
362-3; on his friendships, 330; his 
belief in ghosts, 326-9; on giving 
library to his town, 201-3; as gov- 
ernor of Bithynia, 38^ et seq. ; 
grief for Corellius Rufus, 208; hu- 
manity of, 370 note; in the Hun- 
dred Court, 229-31, 267-8, 362; 
indulgence of others* levity, 360- 
i; on interpretation of a will, 
264, 285; as lawyer and judge, 
216-17, 237, 264, 268-9, 271, 290, 
292-3, 296-7, 314-15, 362, 376-7; 
legacy from Curianus, 272-4; Let- 
ters OF, 195-438; Letters, editor's 
remarks on, 1, 20; life and works, 
ix, 193-4; life in Laurentum, 373; 
life in Tuscum villa, 370-2; occu- 
pations of, 205; made a privileged 
citizen, 375; prosecution of Certus, 
355-60; on purchasing a new jjrop- 
erty, 257-8; on reason for reciting 
his works, 320-2; on reciting his 
writings, 348; Regulus, relations 
with, 197-9; seeks office of augur 
or septemvir, 381; on selling an 
estate, 318-19; as a senator, 335- 
40; slaves and servants, relations 
with, 219, 288-9, 332, 341; on the 
spring, 271-2; statue purchased by, 
245-6; method of study, 200; a 
supper of, 211; the temple of, 379- 
80; with his tenants, 372; town 
under his patronage, 260; corre- 
spondence with Trajan, 374-438; 
speech on Trajan, 255-7, 3^7 > to 
Trajan, on princes, xxxiv, 220; 
made treasurer of Saturn, ix, 376, 
380 note i; vanity of, iii, 135; 
verses by, ix, 317; verses on, 259; 
during eruption of Vesuvius, 302- 
5; villa of, 231-6; villa in Tus- 
cany, 278-85; villas on Larian 
Lake, 352-3; wealth of, 380 note 
2; wife of (see Calpurnia) ; wish 
to live in history, 330-2; on his 
works, 353-4; on his writings and 
lectures, 275-6; Zosimus, servant 
of, 288-9 
Pliocene Strata, Lyell on, xxxviii, 

426 
Plistoanax, king of Sparta, xii, 60-1 
Plodding, wins the race, xvii, 40 
Plotinus, Emerson on, v, 129; the 
"union'* of, 145 



Ploughman*s Life, The, vi, 26 

Plover, long-legged, xxix, 126-7 

Plowman, Chaucer's, xl, 26 

Plumptre, E, H., translator of 
Greek Dramas, viii, i 

Plums, Locke on, xxxvii, 21 

Pluralities, Harrison on, xxxv, 273- 
4; Luther on, xxxvi, 331; Milton 
on, iv, S2; iii, 221 

Plutarch, on dissimulation, xxxix, 
72; on Elysian Fields, xxxv, 323; 
Emerson on heroes of , v, 191; his- 
torian of Heroism, 127; Irish 
myths and, xxxii, 188; on his 
knowledge of Latin, xii, 198; life 
and works of, 3-4; Montaigne on, 
xxxii, 30, 45-6; 95-6; on motion 
of the earth, xxxix, 58; on poets, 
xxvii, 42; on Saturn, iii, 47; 
Shelley on, xxvii, 352; study of 
advised, iii, 252; on victors of 
the games, xxxiv, 270 

Plutarch^s Lives, xii; editor's re- 
marks on, 1, 19, 48; Franklin on, 
i, 14; Mill on influence of, xxv, 
76; Shakespeare and, xxxix, 237 

Pluto, in The Frogs, viii, 463-66; 
helmet of, iii, 59; Hugo on, xxxix, 
366 

Plutocracy, Mill on dangers of, xxv, 
112 

Plutus, Dante on, xx, 29; fable of, 
iii, 93; Webster on, xlvii, 765 

Plymouth, settlement of (see also 
Mayflower Compact) 

Plymouth Rock, Lowell on, xlii, 
1451 

Plynteria, feast of, xii, 145 

Po-niu, disciple of Confucius, xliv, 
19 (8) 

Po-yi, xliv, 17 note 10, 23 (14), 58 
(12), 64 (8) 

Po-yii, son of Confucius, xliv, 58 
(13), 60 (10) 

Podalirius, and Alsus, xiii, 405-6 

Podesta, in I Promessi Sposi, xxi, 
77-84, 302, 423-4, 575 

Podolia, honey of, xxxv, 365 

Poe, Edgar Allan, life and works 
of, xxviii, 382; poems by, xlii, 
1273-92; The Poetic Principi^e, 
xxviii, 381-404 

Poems, Poe on length of, xxviii, 

383-7 
PoESY OR Art, Coleridge on, xxvii, 

26g-77 
PoESY, Defense of, by Sidney, 

xxvii, 7-55 
PoESY, The Progress of, xl, 465-8 
Poet, The, by Emerson, v, 167-189 
Poet, Advice to a Young, xxvii, 

112-30 
Poetic Diction, Wordsworth on, 

xxxix, 298, 307-11 
Poetic Principi^e, The, by Poe, 

xxviii, 381-404 



956 



GENERAL INDEX 



l*oetical Beauty, Pascal on, xlviii, 

17 (33? 
Poetical Justice, Dennis on, xxvii, 

198 
Poetry, advantages of, over prose, 
xxxix, 300-2; in America, Whit- 
man on, 409-33; Aristotle on, 
xiii, 36-7; xxvii, 21-2; Arnold on 
study of, xxviii, 65-91; the aspi- 
ration for supernal beauty, 389- 
91; B-entham on, xxv, 75; Burke 
on cause of power of, xxiv, 136- 
48; Byron's definition of, xxxii, 
417; characteristics of high, xxviii, 
74-S; classes of readers of, xxxix, 
327-32; Coleridge on, xxvii, 269- 
70; comic, 29-30; common life in, 
xxxix, 285-6; compared with his- 
tory and biography, 294; com- 
pared with painting in effect on 
the passions, xxiv, 53-7; com- 
pared with reason in usefulness, 
xxvii, 367-70; Confucius on, xliv, 
26 (8), 58 (13). 60 (9); con- 
temptible subjects in, xxxix, 304; 
criticism of, 327-33; defined, xxvii, 
345; Descartes on study of, xxxiv. 
8, 9: didactic, xxviii, 387-8; Dry- 
den on, epic and dramatic, xiii, 
5-11, 14; Dryden on virtues of, 
xxxix, 165-6; earliest form of 
teaching, xxvii, 8-10; effects of, 
on society, 3S2-67; elegiac, 29; 
Eliot on reading of. 1, 9-10; Eliot 
on translations of, 4; Emerson on 
power of, v, 161; enervating, 
xxvii, 38-40; English (i6th centu- 
ry), 43-53; English, retrospect of, 
xxxix, 333-47; English, review of, 
xxviii. 75-90; estimate of, by com- 
parison, xxviii, 72-4; exhortation 
to honor, xxvii, 54-5; expression 
of high delights, 346; false criti- 
cism of, xxxix, 304-5; fancy and 
imagination in, 316-26; fancy and 
judgment in, xxxiv, 364; favored 
by eminent men, xxvii, 112; Frank- 
lin on usefulness of writing, i. 
17; future of, xxviii, 65-6; Gold- 
smith on, xli, 531-2; habits of 
order produced by, xxvii, 375; 
heroic, 31-a; high standards neces- 
sary in, xxviii, 66-7; hints for en- 
couragement of, xxvii, 125-30; 
historic and personal estimates of, 
xxviii, 67-72; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
377; honored by great men, xxvii, 
42-3; Hugo on taste in, xxxix, 
404-5; Hugo on originality in, 
383-5; Hugo on rules in, 382-5, 
407-8; Hume on rules of, xxvii, 
219; iambic, 29; inspiration of, 
371-2; lack of appreciation of 
high, xxxix, 332-47; language of, 
281-2, 283. 285-6. 288-94. 297-9. 
303-4f 307-iii 417-191 learning 



unnecessary to, xxvii, 116-18; 
Locke on, xxxii, 159-60; of love, 
xxvii. 364-5; lyric, 30-1; Mazzini 
on, xxxii, 401-2; Mazzini on 
Goethe's conception of, 410-11; 
measure in, xxvii, 349-51; merit 
of, as measured by length, xxviii, 
383-7; James Mill on, xxv, 15; 
Milton on study of, iii. 255-6; 
Montaigne on, xxxii, 30, 63-4; 
music and, xxxix, 315-16; national 
awakening influenced by, xxvii, 
376-7; nature and, xxxix. 423-4; 
its need of giving immediate 
pleasure, 294-s; need of, in peri- 
ods of wealth, xxvii, 371; not an 
imitative art, xxiv, 144-5; ob- 
servation of order and relations 
in, xxvii, 347; originality in, 
xxxix, 348-51, 419; pastoral, xxvii, 
28; Plato on, 42; Plato's banish, 
ment of, 40-2; Pliny on, as 
method of study, ix. 317-18; popu- 
larity as test of, xxxix, 351-3; 
reason of power of, xxiv, 41, 45; 
powers requisite for producing, 
xxxix, 312; primitive, ancient, 
and modern, 356-73; profitable- 
ness of, xxvii, 35-6; prose and, 
xxxix, 290-1 note; purpose in, 
286; record of best moments, 
xxvii, 372-3; relation of feeling 
and action in, xxxix, 287-8; rela- 
tion of substance and style in, 
xxviii, 75; religion and, xxvii, 
113-16; xxxix, 329-31; require- 
ments of, 415-17; restricted mean- 
ing of, xxvii, 349; rhyme in, 120; 
rhythm in, xxviii, 390; Romans 
and, xxvii, lo-ii; romantic and 
classical, xxxix, 362-3; rural life 
and, xxvii, 70-1; Sainte-Beuve on 
reason in, xxxii, 130-1; satiric, 
xxvii, 29; Schiller on, xxxii, 285- 
6; science compared with, xxxix, 
295-6; science related to, 296-7; 
sinrriles in, xxvii, 121; source of 
all knowledge and virtue, 371; 
sources of, xxviii, 403-4; stories 
compared with, xxvii, 351; superi- 
ority of, to other arts, 349; taste 
in, xxxix, 282; Thoreau on nature 
in, xxviii, 426-7; three classes of 
readers of, xiii, 60-2; three gen- 
eral kinds of. xxvii, 14-15; tragic, 
30; truth and. xxxix, 424-5; truth 
and duty may be introducd in- 
cidentally, xxviii, 391, 403; truth 
its object, xxxix, 294. 296; turns 
all things to loveliness, xxvii, 373; 
universality of, 348-351;., xxxix, 
296-7; as untruth, xxvii, 36-71 
various kinds of. 28-32; xxxix, 
313-14; of various races, 443. 
444; verse and rhyme in, xxvii, 
34-5. 52; as teacher of virtue, i6- 



GENERAL INDEX 



357 



28; as promoting wantonness, 37- 
8; Whitman on future, xxxix, 
409-32; word from the Greek, 
xxvii, 12-13; Wordsworth on, 
xxxix, 281-2, 283-306, 307-11,312- 
26, 327-53; Wordsworth on ma- 
terials of, 281; world created 
anew by, xxvii, 373-4 
Poetry of the Cei^tic Races^ xxxii, 

141-91 
Poetry, English, xl, xli, xlii 
Poetry, Shei,i.ey's Defence of, 

xxvii, 343-77 
Poets, Aristophanes on duty of, 
viii, 450, 452; authors of language, 
xxvii, 347-8; banished by Plato, 
40-2; Browning on, xlii, 1113-14; 
Burke on narrowness of, xxiv, 49; 
Burns on, xi, 86-7, 91, 114, 329-30, 
339> 450-1 ; called vates, xxvii, 
lo-ii; defined in universal sense, 
347; Dryden on, xviii, 5; Emer- 
son on great, v, 149; fame of, 
xxvii, 349; happiest and best of 
men, 374-5; historians as, 352; 
Jonson on, xl, 310; to be judged 
only by time, xxvii, 352; as legis- 
lators and prophets, xxvii, 348; 
Manzoni on advice of, xxi, 487; 
meaning a maker, xxvii, 12, 32; 
O'Shaughnessy on, xlii, 1246-7; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 17 (34), 19 
(39); philosophers as, xxvii, 350- 
1; philosophers, compared with, 
367-70; qualifications requisite to, 
xxxix, 312; shoemakers and, xxvii, 
121; Socrates on wisdom of, ii, 
8; Tasso on, xxvii, 374 note; 
unacknowledged legislators of the 
world, 377; Whitman on, xxxix, 
413-30, 432; Wordsworth on, 292- 
3, 296, 297-8, 316-17; xli, 675 
Poet's Dream, The, xli, 878-9 
Poet's Progress, The, vi, 338-41 
Poet's Welcome to His Love-Be- 
gotten Daughter, vi, 59-60 
Poets, Ode on the, xli, 896-7 
Poggini, Domenico, xxxi, 365, 375, 

T> ^77 

Poggini, Gianpagolo, xxxi, 365 note, 

375, 377 
Pogius of Florence, xxxix, 17 
Pointers, instincts of, xi, 267, 268 
Poisoning, Harvey on, xxxviii, 132- 

3; punishment of, in old England, 

xxxv, 384 
Poisons, regulation of sale of, xxv, 

304-6 
Poitiers, The Battle of, xxxv, 34- 

60 
Poix, Edward TIT at, xxxv, 17 
Polarity, in affairs of government, 

V, 256; in nature, 14-15, 91-3 
Polarization of Light, xxx, 277-9 
Pole, Cardinal, and Machiavelli, 

xxvii, 384 



Polemic, Epitaph on a Noisy, vi, 

62 
Polemo, the sophist, xxviii, 61 
Polemon, King, capture of, xii, 364 
Polenta, Guido da, xx, 113 note 3 
Policy, and justice, xxiv, 304; Penn 

on, i, 354 (152-4) 
Polite Letters, Hume on, xxxvii, 

309 

Politeness, Character and, xxxii, 250, 
269; Locke on, xxxvii, 50, 132-3; 
origin of, xxxiv, 208; the ritual 
of society, v, 425-6; Swift on 
ceremonial, xxvii, 107-8 (see also 
Manners) 

Polites, and Circe, xxii, 142; death 
of, xiii, 121 

Politian, mentioned, xxvii, 390 

Political Economy, Burke on be- 
ginnings of, xxiv, 415; effects of 
a mistaken, x, 458-9; human 
nature in, xxviii, 483; Mill on, 
xxv, 152-3; need of imagination 
in, xxvii, 368, 370; objects of, x, 
325; systems of (see Commercial 
S., Agricultural S.) 

Political Institutions, dependent on 
circumstances, xxiv, 156; Hamil- 
ton on, xliii, 212; Mill on choice 

of, xxv. III -1 2 

Political Parties, Washington on, 
xliii, 255, 257, 258-9 

Politicians, Smith on, x, 365; 
Socrates on, ii, 7-8; Webster on, 
xlvii, 767 

Politics, Essay on, Emerson's, v, 
249-261 

Politics, On, by Burns, vi, 480. 

Politics, Burke on science of, xxiv, 
209-10; Channing on, xxviii, 329- 
30; corruption in, under property 
system, xxxvi, 178; friendship in, 
ix, 22-4, 30-1 ; Hamilton on intol- 
erance in xliii, 214; Hobbes on 
science of, xxxiv, 376; Hume on 
science of, xxxvii, 314, 379, 444; 
Lowell on science of, xxviii, 452; 
Mill on science of, xxv, 103-6; 
Milton on study of, iii, 254; 
reading course in, 1, 48-51; 
Thoreau on, xxviii, 413 

Poll-taxes, Smith on, x, 526-7, 538- 
40 

Pollio, Asinius, orator, ix, 214 note 
3; in African War, xii, 318; 
Caesar, and, 303; on Caesar, xxxii, 
102 

Polonius, in Hamlet, the prototype 
of, xlvi, 86; Laertes, and, 94; 
farewell advice to Laertes, 102; 
counsels Ophelia against Hamlet, 
103-4; sends Reynaldo to Laertes, 
1 1 3-1 5; hears Hamlet's madness, 
II 5-1 6; reports to king, 118, 119- 
21; scene with Hamlet, 121-3; an- 
nounces players, 127, 129, 130-1; 



358 



GENERAL INDEX 



asks king to play, 133, 139-40; 

plan to test Hamlet's madness, 

134. 138; at the play, 141, 146; 

summons Hamlet to queen, 149; 

in hiding at Hamlet's meeting 

with mother, 151, 153; death, 

153; Hamlet on, 154, 159, 162-3 

Polus, the actor, xii, 197 note, 221 

Polyalces, Plutarch on, xii, 68 

Polybus, in the Odyssey, xxii, 51, 

313; death of, 315 
Polycarp, Bunyan on, xv, 268 
Polycaste, daughter of Nestor, xxii, 
46 

Polycrates, tyrant of Samos, xii, 65; 
Anacreon and, xii, 834; death of, 
prophesied, iii, 95; Emerson on, 
V, 99 

Polydamna, wife of Thon, xxii, 54; 
Helen and, xxxiii, 57 

Polydeuces, and Castor, xxii, 159 

Polydore, Moliere on, xxvi, 204-5; 
murder of, xiii, 133 

PoLYEUCTE, Corneille's, xxvi, 71- 
121; remarks on, 70 

Polyeucte, in Polyeucte, goes to be 
baptized, xxvi, 71-5; Pauline on, 
76-7; Severus on, 82; returns to 
Pauline, 86-7; determines to go 
to temple, 88-90; his deeds in 
temple, 93-4; his conduct at death 
of Nearchus, 97, 98; in prison, 
100-3; with Pauline in prison, 103- 
7; with Felix, 1 12-14; last scene 
with Pauline, 1 14-15; refuses to 
yield and condemned, 116-17 

Polygamy, Browne on, iii, 337; Mill 
on, XXV, 299-300 

Polylerites, More on the, xxxvi, 160 

Polymnestor, Dante on, xx, 231 note 
19 

Polymorphic Genera, xi, 60-1 

Polynices, and Eteocles, xx, 109 
note; references to, in Antigone, 
viii, 243, 247-8, 250-1, 280 

Polypheides, son of Mantius, xxii, 
214, 215 

Polypheme, the Cyclops, xiii, 152-3; 
reference to, xii, 966 

Polyphemus, Burke on, xxiv, 133; 
remarks on story of, xxii, 3; 
Ulysses and, 11, 125-34 

Polytheism, Lessing on, xxxii, 196 

Pomarre, Queen, of Tahiti, xxix, 
439-40 

Pomham, the Indian, xliii, 155 

Pommiers, Aymenion of, xxxv, 36, 
42, 48 

Pomona, reference to, iv, 193; Ver- 
tumnus and, z-jz 

Pomp, Milton on, iv, 192; Penn on, 
i, 407 

Pompeia, wife of Caesar, xii, 2-]'j\ 
Clodius and, 249-50, 281-2 

Pompeius, Quintus, quarrel with 
Sulpicius, IX, 7 



Pompeius Saturninus, letter to, ix, 
200 

Pompeius, Sextus, xii, 358-9 (see 
Pompey, Sextus) 

Pompeo, xxxi, 95-6, 126, 131, 139, 
141, 148-50, 153 

Pompey, accusations against, ix, loi- 
2; Caesar and, iii, 130, 148; ix, 
4-5; xii, 257-8, 260, 284, 285-6, 
291, 293, 295, 296; Caesar and, 
Cicero on, ix, 168-9, 170; Caesar, 
final contest with, xii, 298-313; 
Caesar killed beside statue of, 330; 
Caesar presented with head of, 
315; Cicero and, ix, 90-1, 117, 120, 
125, 126, 127-8, 168-9; xii, 22,2y 
251, 252, 254, -257-8; Cicero on, 
ix, 84, 97, 127; Cicero on death 
of, 165; Clodius and, xii, 254; 
Crassus and, 284; Dryden on, xiii, 
16-17; in Egypt, xxxii, 6; as man- 
ager of corn supplies, ix, 99; mar- 
ries Caesar's daughter, _ xii, ZTjy 
285; at Milo's trial, ix, loo-i; 
xii, 255; Milton on, iv, 389; in 
Parthian war, ix, 153; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 239 (701); preparations of, 
ix, 102; provincial laws of, 418 
note 2; sea-power of, iii, 83; sons 
of, xii, 320; temperate life of, 
349; Sylla and, iii, 70; Webster 
on death of, xlvii, 814 

Pompey, Sextus, Erichtho and, xx, 
37 note 2; refuses to break word, 
xii, 358-9; in Sicily, 358; war on, 
362 

Pomponia, and Q. Cicero, ix, 139; 
Philologus and, xii, 268 

Ponkipog, Eliot on, xliii, 151 

Pontanus, Sidney on, xxvii, 14 

Pontitianus, ana St. Augustine, vii, 
132-5 

Pontonous, in the Odyssey, xxii, 98 

Pontormo, Jacopo Carrucci da, xxxi, 
418 note 

Pooley, Thomas, persecution of, xxv, 
232 note 2 

Poor, Burns on life of the (see 
TwA Dogs) ; Luther on care of 
the, xxxvi, 329-30; Montaigne on 
the, xxxii, 122 

Poor Laws, in Elizabethan England, 
xxxv, 317-19; of England, x, 145- 
50; Ruskin on, xxviii, 127 and 
note 17 

Poor Mailie, Death of, vi, 43-5 

Poor Mailie's Elegy, vi, 45-7; re- 
marks on, 17 

Poor Richard's Almanac, i, 3, 95-6, 
172 

POORTITH CaULD AND ReSTLESS LoVE, 

vi, 479-80 
Pope, Alexander, on Addison, xxvii, 
183, 184, 188, 189; Addison's 
Cato 2.nd, 177, 178; Arnold on, 
xxviii, 82-4; Burns on, vi, 358; 
Byron on, xxxii, 133-4; as editor 



GENERAL INDEX 



359 



of Shakespeare, xxxix, 246-8, 334; 
Eraers>on on, v, 4O2; Essay on 
Man, xl, 417-51; llazlitt on, xxvii, 
287-9; On a Lady at Court, xl, 
416; lines by, on friends, xxvii, 
287-8; Milton and, xxxix, 336; 
on Milton's God, xxviii, 207; on 
modesty in speech, i, 19; Ralph 
and, 40, 157; Sainte-Beuve on, 
xxxii, 133, 136; on Shakespeare, 

xxxix, 222y 22^, 240; SOLJTUDE 

by, xl, 415; Swift and, xxviii, 15, 
27 \ Swift on, 14; on Swift, 13; 
on Thomson, xxxix, 341; V'oltaire 
on, xxxiv, i5-2-3» 155 5 Words- 
worth on, xxxix, 338-9; Words- 
worth on Iliad oi, 340; Words- 
worth on Windsor Forest of, 340 
Pope, Sir Thomas, xxxvi, 139-40 
Pope, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

70 
Pope's Months, xxxvi, 294, 303 
Popery, Milton on, iii, 241 
Popes, benefices and the, xxxvi, 294- 
9; bishoprics and, 295-6, 303-4, 
308; bulls of the, 328-9; Calvin 
on the, xxxix, 44-5; court of the, 
xxxvi, 292, 308; custom of kiss- 
ing their feet, 311; Dante on cov- 
etousness of the, xx, 400-2; Dante 
on temporal authority of the, 213; 
Datarius of the, xxxvi, 2^8 note, 
300; encroachments in Germany, 
290-4, 303, 308-9; England and, 
xxxiv, 90; how regarded in Italy, 
xxvii, 386; jubilees of the, xxxvi, 
314 note; legates of, 332; attitude 
toward liberty of press, iii, 206-7; 
Luther on pomp of the, xxxvi, 
289-90, 295, 308, 312; Luther on 
powers of^ the, 265-6, 267, 270, 
271, 325; Luther on right of pun- 
ishing, 283, 286; Luther on vices 
and encroachments of the, 289- 
313. 332-3. 337. 339-40; monasti- 
cism encouraged by, 315; Pascal 
on the, xlviii, 309 (871-7), 311 
(880, 882); their relation with 
temporal power, xxxvi, 278-83, 305, 
309-11; relations with empire, 309- 
Ji. 343-75 their ri^ht to interpret 
Bible, 283-5; thejr rights over 
councils, 286-8; saints and, 327; 
as vicars of Christ, 361 (see also 
Papacy) 
Popillius, and Cicero, xii, 267 
Poplar Field, The, xli, 547-8 
Poplicola, Plutarch on, xii, 184 
Poppy-water, Locke on, xxxvii, 27 
Populace, Bacon on movements of 
the, iii, 42; Browne on the, 325; 
disapj)roval of the, v, 69-70; kinps 
and, iii, 54; nobility _and, xxxvi, 
34; praises of the, iii, 132; in 
princedoms, xxxvi, 34-7; Shake- 
speare on likes of the, advi, 162; 
superstition of, iii* 47 



Popular Science, Freeman on, xxviii, 

243 
Popularity, Carlyle on, xxv, 419-20; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 374; Milton on, 
iv, 389; Penn on, i, 366; as test 
of poetry, xxxix, 351-3 
Population, Bacon on need of limit- 
ing, iii, 41; laws of, in Utopia, 
xxxvi, 194-5; limited only by food 
supply, X, 174; Mill on restriction 
of, xxv, 71; regulated by demand 
for labor, x, 84; relation of, to 
poverty, 83-4 
Poquelin (see Moliere) 
Porphyro, and Madeline, xli, 909-17 
Porphyry, the vision of, v, 145 
Porpoises, Darwin on, xxix, 49 
Porsena, reference to, xiii, 2^3 
Port Famine, Darwin on, xxix, 247, 

249 
Port Pheasant, xxxiii, 135-6 
Port Plenty, Drake at, xxxiii, 148, 

157 
Port Royal, Pascal on nuns of, 

xlviii, 296 (841) 
Portail, Antoine, xxxviii, 48 
Portents, defined, xxxiv, 397; study 

of, in Egypt, xxxiii, 42 
Porter, in Macbeth, xlvi, 326-7 
Porter, The, and the Ladies of 

Baghdad, xvi, 60-71 
Porter, Edward, xxxiii, 349, 363, 385 
Portia, death of, xlvii, 779 note 
Portillo Pass, Darwin on, xxix, 333; 

origin of name, 344 
Portinari, Folco, father of Beatrice, 

Porto Praya, Darwin on, xxix, 1 1- 

12 
Porto Rico, cession of, xliii, 470 

(2), 473, 475 , , 

Portrait, A, Sheridan s, xviu, 105-8 
Portraits, Coleridge on, xxvii, 274-5 
Portugal, discoveries of, x, 417.; 
reading and writing in, xxxyii, 
137; taxes on precious metals in, 
X, 398-401 ; trade treaty with Eng- 
land, 408-13 
Portuguese, Sonnets from the, 

xli, 950-68 
Portuguese Chapel Hymn, xlv, 

567-8 
Portunus, reference to, xiii, 190 ^ 
Porzia, Madonna (see Chigi, Porzia) 
Poseidon, among ^ the Ethiopians, 
xxii, 9-10; origin of name of, 
xxxiii, 30; in the Odyssey, xxii, 
9-10, II, 78-81, 113, 184-5; Tyro 
and, 158 
Posidonius, on tides, xxx, 294 
PosjE, The, vi, 431 ^ 
Positiveness, Franklin on, i, 19 
Possession, better than prospect, xvii, 

32; use the only, xix, 32 
Possibilities, Aurelius on, ii, 238 

(19) 
Post-ofl&ce, expense of maintaining, 



360 



GENERAL INDEX 



x» 475; government ownership of, 
490 
Post-offices, under Confederation, 
xliii, 174; under Constitution, 

197 (7) 

Postal Service, Marshall on, xliii, 
234; progress of, ix, 387 npte 

Posterity, Bacon on care of, iii, 20, 
22\ Penn on care of, i, 358-9; 
Raleigh on greatening, xxxix, 96- 
8; Woolman on care of, i, 242-3 

Posthumous Child, On a, vi, 418 

Postponement, Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii, 206 (i), 212 (14), 216 (17) 

Postumus, name of, xii, 162 

Potassium, tester of water, xxx, 
118, 124 note; why it decomposes 
water, 145-6 

Potatoes, cultivation of, x, 170; in- 
troduced into England by Drake, 
xxxiii, 126; nourishment in, x, 
171; wild, in Chonos Islands, xxix, 
302-3 

Potentates, Raleigh on, xl, 208 

Pothinus, the eunuch, xii, 315, 316 

Potiphar's wife, in Dante's Hell, 
XX, 127 note 6 

Pots, fable of the, xvii, 31 

Potts, Stephen, i, 52-53, 60 

Poultry, price of, x, 196-7; in Uto- 
pia, xxxvi, 184 

Pourceaugnac, Hugo on, xxxix, 374 

Poverty, Arabian verses on, xvi, 
136; Browne on, iii, 345; Burns 
on, vi, 546; Carlyle on, xxv, 350- 
i; Confucius on, xliv, 6 (15), 47 
(11), 56; and crime, Confucius 
on, 26 (10); and crime, Shake- 
speare on, xlvi, 281 ; Goldsmith 
on, xii, 529; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
380; Jesus on, xliv, 374 (20); 
Kempis on, vii, 297 (4) ; Lear on 
hardships of, xlvi, 254-5; Lucan 
on, XX, 333 note 16; money and, 
xxxvi, 252; More on fear of, 196; 
old age and, ix, 48; Penn on, i, 
344 (52) ; relation of, to marriage 
and generation, x, 83-4; due to 
property system, xxxvi, 177-8; a 
cause of sedition, iii, 40, 41; in 
subjects, xxxvi, 171,^ 172; unmer- 
ited, makes proud, xix, 398 

Powell, Anthony, with Drake, xxxiii, 
2Z'J\ in Drake's Armada, 235, 249, 
256, 259, 265, 267 

Powell, Mary, first wife of Milton, 
xxviii, 187-90, 192; iv, 4 

Power, Burke on idea of, xxiv, 57- 
62; Confucius on, xliv, 8-9; the 
desire for, xxxiv, 385; different 
kinds of, xxx, 6-10; education 
confers the only true, xxviii, 
139-40; Emerson on thirst for, 
v, 19; force is not, viii, 360; gives 
no true claim to obedience, xxviii, 
204-5; Hobbes on sources of. 



xxxiv, 374-5; honor in relation 
to, 378, 380-3; Hume on idea 
of, xxxvii, 355-70; love of, in 
children, 90-1, 96; Pascal on, 
xlviii, no (310); penalties of, v, 
92-3; political, Washington on 
distribution of, xliii, 259-60; the 
pomp of, xl, 456; real and imag- 
inary, xlviii, 109 (307, 308); re- 
sides in transition, v, TTy Ruskin 
on love of, xxviii, 162; Shelley 
on fear of, xviii, 334; thirst for, 
iii, 26-7, 34; velocity and, in 
machines, xxx, 190-3; worldly, 
price of, xviii, 435; worldly, 
transitoriness of, xvi, 315-19, 326- 
7» ZZ'^-2, 334-6 
Pozzobonelli, Michele, xxi, 532, 

547 
Practicalness, More on, xxxvi, 174-6 
Practice, Bacon on, iii, 101-2; early, 
makes the master, xxvi, 416; 
Locke on teaching by, xxxvii, 46, 
47» 49-50; Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii, 300 (6) 
Praed, Mill on, xxv, 84 
Praetors, Roman, ix, 290 note 2 
Pragmatic, defined by Kant, xxxii, 

347 note 
Pragmatick, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 299 
Praise, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

132-3 
Praise, Augustine, St., on, vii, 59, 
70; Augustine, St., on desire of, 
199-203; belongeth to God alone, 
257 (4); children's love of, 
xxxvii, 41-4; 185; Cicero on, ix, 
108, 159; danger from, v, 103; 
desire of, i, 366 (320-1); Emer- 
son on the highest, v, 41; "fool- 
ish face of," 69; Goldsmith on 
love of, xii, 539; Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 359; independence of, vii, 
254 (2, 3); Jesus on, xliv, 374 
(26); Jonson on, xl, 308-9; 
Kempis on danger of, vii, 322 (5); 
Kempis on love of, 317-318; 
Locke on, of children, xxxvii, 
112; love of, the strongest mo- 
tive, xxviii, 96-8; Marcus Aure- 
lius on, ii, 216 (19, 20), 237 
(16), 253 {.(i2)y 260 (21), 266 
<^53)». 274 (34); as means of 
training, xxv, 90-1; Milton on, 
iii, 200; Milton on popular, iv, 
389; Pascal on, xlviii, 123 note 
10; Penn on, i, 400-1; Pliny on, 
iii, 135; Pliny on, ix, 259; Ra- 
leigh on, xxxix, 96; results of 
competition for, xxxiv, 385; re- 
sults of desire of, 386; Rufus 
on leisure for, ii, 118 (5); of self, 
Pliny on, ix, 203; superiority to, 
V, 201 



GENERAL INDEX 



361 



Praising, the delight of, xli, 926 
Prassede, Donna, in I Promessi 

Sposi, xxi, 428-31, 445, 462-4, 

647 
Prato, Giovanni of, xxxi, 226, 256, 

259 

Prayer, in affliction, vii, 305; alle- 
gory of, XV, 193-4; Browne's, iii, 
343-4; Calvin on, xxxix, 53; for 
cleansing the heart, vii, 303; 
Coleridge on the best, xli, 717; 
by Dante, xx, 189; David on, xli, 
507, 509; xliv, 182 (6); for the 
dead, Browne on, iii, 270-1 ; for the 
dead, Dante on, xx, 168-9; Emerson 
on, V, 36, 81; for enlightenment, 
vii, 298-9; Epictetus on, ii, 136 
(58) ; against evil thoughts, vii, 
298; Franklin's, i, 87; to do 
God's will, vii, 288; gratitude the 
most perfect, xxvi, 311; Jesus on, 
xliv, 389 (1-13), 407 (1-7); 
Kempis on proper, vii, 287; 
Luther on, xxxvi, 323; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 226 (7), 275 
(40); Milton on, iv, 323, 326; 
Mohammed on, xlv, 893, 930-1, 
933> 985. 991-2, 1009; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 160 (513-14), 346; Penn 
on formal, i, 378 (478) ; Raleigh 
on dying, xxxix, 99-100; Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 288; Shakespeare 
on, xlvi, 151, 152; in sickness, 
by Pascal, xlviii, 370-8; for the 
spirit of devotion, vii, 271; 
Tennyson on, xlii, 1026; Thom- 
son's, i, 87; in times of doubt, 
vii, 315 (2); in Utopia, xxxvi, 
247, 249; Woolman on, i, 183, 
301 

Prayer, A, in Prospect of Death, 
vi, 36 

Prayer: O Thou Dread Power, vi, 
249-250 

Prayer, A, Under Pressure of 
Violent Anguish, vi, 33-4 

Preacher, Goldsmith's, xli, 525-6 

Preaching, Emerson on, v, 34-37, 
42; Luther on Christian, xxxvi, 
376-7 

Precedents, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 388; 
Lowell on, xxviii, 453 

Precepts, the Buddhist, xlv, 759 

Precious Metals, demand for, x, 
182-3, 185; effect of increase and 
d«crease of, 210-11; exportation 
and importation of, 280-1 ; in 
foreign trade, 312-3; movements 
of the, 280-1, 328-33; not indis- 
pensable to trade, 334; price of, 
178-182, 209-10; steadiness of 
price of, 333-4; taxes on expor- 
tation of, 398, 401 ; in Utopia, 
xxxvi, 202-3; value of, compared 
with corn, x, 186-7; value of, 



reason for, 422; variation in 
value of, 38-9, 48; effect of vari- 
ation on rents, 40-1 ; as wealth, 
335-46 

Precious Stones, prices of, x, 183- 
4, 185, 186;^ reason for high 
prices of, iii, 92; in Utopia, 
xxxvi, 203, 205, 211-12 

Precious Things, David on, xli, 
509-10; for those that prize 
them, xvii, 9 

Precision, excessive, v, 219 

Precocity, Bacon on, iii, iii 

Preconception, Seneca on, xlviii, 
123 note 5 

Predecessors, the memory of, iii, 
32 

Predestination, St. Augustine on, 
vii, 49; Browne on, iii, 274, 323; 
Calvin on, xxxix, 53; Dante on, 
XX, ^74; Hume on doctrine of, 
xxxvii, 388-91; Jansenist doctrine 
of, xlviii, 5; Omar Khayyam on, 
xli, 9^3, 984 

Predicaments, of Aristotle, St. 
Augustine on, vii, 62; sons of 
Ens, iv, 22 

Predictions (see Prophecies) 

Pre-existence, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
9; Cicero on proofs of, ix, 75; 
Lessing on, xxxii, 216-17; Soc- 
rates on, ii, 63-8; Wordsworth 
on intimations of, xli, 609-15 

Prefaces, Hugo on, xxxix, 354-5; 
remarks on, 3; to speeches, a 
waste of time, iii, 67 

Prefaces to Famous Books, xxxix 

Prejudice, Burke on, xxiv, 235; 
fatal to a critic, xxvii, 226-7; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 42 (98) ; in 
Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 295; 
Tennyson on, xlii, 1033 

Prelates, and kings, iii, 53 

Premium, Mr., in School for 
Scandal, xviii, 139; Sir Oliver 
Surface as, 146-7, 150-59 

Premiums, for encouragement of 
industry, x, 406 

Premunire, defined, xlvii, 836 note 

Preparations, a poem, xl, 201-2 

Prepotency, in animals, xi, 329; in- 
stances of, 319-20 

Presage, defined, xxxiv, 397 

Presbyter, is but priest writ large, 
iv, 83 

Presbyterianism, Franklin on, i, 
80; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 82-3 

Prescott, Mill on, xxv, 80, 81 

Prescription, rights by, Burke on, 
xxiv, 300 

Present, the, alone can be lost, ii, 
204 (14); Emerson on the, v, 
21-2; Hobbes on the, xxxiv, 333; 
Longfellow on the, xlii, 1317; 
Omar Khayyam on enjoyment of 



362 



GENERAL INDEX 



the, xli, 972, 973, 974, 983; Pascal 

on the, xlviii, 362; Pascal on 

neglect of the, 64 (172); a point 

in eternity, ii, 241 (36); Raleigh 

on the, xxxix, 93; represents all 

eternity, ii, 241 (37), 262 (36); 

Shakespeare on the, xl, 268, 269; 

Thoreau on the, xxviii, 436-7; use 

of the, ii, 206 (i), 212 (14), 216 

(17), 218 (26) 

Present in Absence, xl, 321 

Present Crisis, The, xlii, 1447-51 

Presents, defined by Stella, xxvii, 

137 (see also Gifts) 
Presidency, price of the, v, 92 
Press, liberty and licentiousness of 
the, xxvii, 258-9; Franklin on 
liberty of, i, 96-7; Mill on liberty 
of the, XXV, 218-59; pious editor's 
idea of liberty of, _xlii, 1453; 
liberty of, in U. S., xliii, 207 (i); 
Mill on writing for, xxv, 57-8 
Pressure, effect of, on temperature, 

XXX, 243-4 
Preston, Captain, xxxiii, 314, 321, 

327* 335 
Presumption, of mankind. Smith 

on, x, 113; Pascal on, xlviii, 79 

(214) 
Presumption, in Pii^grim's Progress, 

XV, 43, 219-20 
Pretas, xlv, 873 note 2 
Pretences, Cicero on, ix, 39-40; 

Raleigh on, xxxix, 73 
Pretexts, Thackeray on, xxviii, 9 
Pretino, II, xxxi, 164 note 5 
Pretty, Francis, Drake's Voyage, 

xxxiii, 205-33 
Pretty Peg, vi, 534 
Prevention, better than cure, i, 365 

(304) 

Priam, Burke on, xxiv, 134; charac- 
ter of, xiii, 21; death of, 122; in 
sack of Troy, 120-1; Shakespeare 
on death of, xlvi, 129-30; visit to 
Arcadia, xiii, 277 

Priam, grandson of King Priam, 
xiii, 200-1 

President of United States, xliii, 
199-202; duties and powers, 201- 
2; election, early method, 199 
2, 3) ; election, amended method 
of, 209-10; impeachment of, 194 
(6), 202 (4); his part in 
legislation, 195-6; Lincoln on duty 
of, 342; oath, 201 (7); qualifica- 
tions, 200 (4) ; removal or death 
of, 200 (5); salary, 200 (6); 
term of, 199 (i); veto power of, 
195-6 

price. Dr. Richard, Burke on, xxiv, 
159-80, 201-2, 203-4, 213-15 

Price, Thomas, xxxii, 145 

Price, everything has Its, v, loi 

Prices, of agricultural products, x, 
12; of bread and meat, i57-9» 



1 60-1; bounties, their effect on, 
396-8, 401; of cattle, 191; of 
clothing, 212-16; of coal and wood, 
176-8; of commodities made by 
employments, 124-5; comparative, 
of food and materials, 186-8; com- 
ponent parts of, 50-7; of dairy 
produce, 198-9; as dependent on 
wages and profits, 103-4; in Eng- 
land (1772), i, 318; of fish, X, 
208; of hogs, 197; of limited or 
uncertain products, 200-11; ot 
manufactures, as affected by prog- 
ress, 211-16; of meat, as dependent 
on price of hides, 206-7; of 
metals, 178-83, 209-11; of metal 
manufactures, 2 11- 12; natural and 
market, 58-67; of necessaries in 
relation to wages, 78-9, 87-8, 90-1 ; 
paper currency, its effect on, 263- 
4; of poultry, 196-7; of precious 
stones, 183-4; of produce deter- 
mine progress of cultivation, 200; 
of produce, effect on rents, 216; 
of producible things, 190-200; 
progress of society, its effect on, 
186-216; real and nominal, 36- 
49; regulated by corn, 397; regu- 
lation of, by law, 15 1-2; rent and, 
relations of, 155; scarcity, 188-9; 
taxes on consumption, in relation 
to, 544; variations in, 123; of 
venison, 195-6; of wool and hides, 
201-7 (see also Values) 

Pridam le Noire, xxxv, 173; his 
fight with Sir Bors, 174-5 

Pride, ^schylus on, viii, 222; Au- 
gustine, St., on temptations of, 
vii, 200-3; Browne on, iii, 336; 
Burke on, v, 98; Confucius on, 
xliv, 26 (11); folly of, vii, 219- 
20; fosterer of inequality, xxxvi, 
253; Franklin on, i, 92; Hunt 
on, xxvii, 306; instances of, given 
by Dante, xx, 193-4; Jesus on, 
xliv, 399 (11), 407 (14); Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 282 (10), 304 
(27); Mohammed on, xlv, 927; 
Pascal on human, xlviii, 133 (405- 
7), 156 (460); Penn on human, 
i. 339-41; provokes envy, iii, 26; 
punishment of, in Purgatory, xx, 
188-92; results of, xxxiv, 367; 
the sin, in Faustus, xix, 220; 
Tennyson on, xlii, 1063; virtue 
and, xl, 430; in one's virtues, ii, 
177 (176); womanly, xl, 256; 
Woolman on, i, 285 

Pride of Life, daughter of Adam, 
XV, 74 

Pride of Youth, xli, 764-5 ^^^ 

Priestley, Fluxley on, xxviii, 217; 
Lowell on, 472 

Priestman, Thomas, i, 327 

Priests, actors and, xix, 27; Bud- 
dhist, ordination of, xlv, 756-63; 



GENERAL INDEX 



363 



Caxton*s tale of two, xxxix, i8- 
19; Chaucer on, xl, 25; Dryden 
on satires of, xxxix, 172-3; Emer- 
son on, V, 33-41 ; false, Shelley 
on, xviii, 301; Kempis on qualities 
of, vii, 359-60, 369 (6, 7); Lu- 
ther on, xxxvi, 279, 280, 282-3, 
350-1, 373-4» 376; marriage of, 
Calvin on, xxxix, 40; marriage 
of, Luther on, xxxvi, 317-21; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 312 (885); pun- 
ishments of, xxxvi, 323 note; 
Quaker attitude toward, xxxiv, 
70; in Utopia, xxxvi, 244-6, 248; 
Whitman on, xxxix, 430 
Primal Four, the, xix, 51 
Primary Qualities, xxxvii, 219, 223-4 
Primary Schools, origin of, xxviii, 

379 
Primaticcio, Francesco (II Bologna), 

xxxi, 314 note, 323-6, 327-8, 332, 

338 
Prime, the, in Low Countries, iii, 

144 
Primogeniture, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

426; Johnson on, v, 430; Pascal 

on, xlviii, 104 (291), 112 (320) 
Primum Mobile, iii, 39 note 
Prince, etymology of word, xxxv, 

229 
Prince, The, Machiavelli's, xxxvi, 

5-90; editorial remarks on, 3; 

Garnett on, 3-4; influence of, 

xxvii, 381-2; Macaulay on, 383; 

413-15 
Prince and the Ghuleh, The, xvi, 

39-40 

Prince Rupert's Drops, xxx, 29 
note 9 

Prince of Wales, title of heir of 
England, xxxv, 229 

Princes, need of adaptibility in, 
xxxvi, 84-6; clemency and cruelty, 
56-7, 58-9; counsellors of, 80-2; 
Duke Chon on, xliv, 65 (10); ex- 
pedients of, for security, xxxvi, 
71-S; faith of, 59-60; flatterers of , 
80; Goldsmith on, xli, 522-3; 
liberality and miserliness ^ in, 
xxxvi, 54-6; duty of, in military 
affairs, 50-2, 71-2, 74-5; More on, 
149; Pliny on praise of, ix, 255; 
means of acquiring reputation, 
xxxvi, 75-9; secretaries of, 79-80; 
should avoid contempt and hatred, 
62-71 ; should not depend on 
fortune, 84; should they excite 
love or fear, 57-9; Tzu-kung on, 
xliv, 67 (20, 21); virtues and 
vices of, xxxvi, 53-4, 60-1 ; Web- 
ster on, xlvii, 740 (see also Kings, 
Rulers) 

Princedoms, absolute and limited by 
nobility, xxxvi, 16-17; acquired by 
crimes, 30-4; acquired by fortune. 



23-30; advantages of new, 82; 
arms in new, 71-2; arms and fac- 
tions in mixed, 72-3; best friends 
in new, 73-4; civil, 34-7» 74; eccle- 
siastical, 39-42; hereditary, 7-8; 
military affairs of, 42-52, 7'i-2, 74' 
5; mixed, 8-19; new, acquired by 
merit, 20-3; the several kinds of, 
7; strength of, 37-9 

Principal and Agent, Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 430-1 

Principia, Newton's, Locke on, 
xxxvii, 178 

Principia, Preface to Newton's, 
xxxix, 157-9 

Principles, assertorial, problematical, 
and apodictic, xxxii, 345; Emer- 
son on, V, 88; Epictetus on, ii, 
127 (30); Marcus Aurelius on, 
211 (13), 213 (3), 216 (16), 290 
(5); Pascal on intuitive, xlviii, 
100 

Printing, Hobbes on invention of, 
xxxiv, 335 

Printing-houses, Franklin on, i, 47 
note 

Prior, Matthew, poems by, xl, 406- 
8; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 150, 159 

Prioress, Chaucer's, xl, 14-15; l^ry- 
den on, xxxix, 174 

Priscian, in Dante's Hell, xx, 66 

Priscilla, wife of Aquila, xliv, 471 
(2-4, 18-19), 472 (26) 

Priscus, Cornelius, letters to, ix, 
227, 258, 294, 322 

Priscus, Javolenus, anecdote of, ix, 
297-8 

Priscus, Vibius, xxxv, 367 

Prisoner of Chillon, xli, 821-31 

Prisoners of War, in agreement 
with Mexico, xliii, 325-6 

Prisons, Cellini in praise of, xxxi, 
263-5; Emerson on, v, 58-9 

Pritchard, Mrs., Hazlitt on, xxvii, 
290 

Privacy, Penn on, i, 366-7, 370 

Private Property (see Property) 

Privation, Burke on terror in, xxiv, 

63 

Privernus, death of, xiii, 316-17 
Pro Patria Mori, xli, 838 
Proaeresius, leader of Attic school, 

xxviii, 60; Hephaestion and, 55 
Proairesis, Milton on, iii, 254 note 
Probability, Hume on, xxxvii, 351- 

3' 397-9; Pascal on doctrine of, 

xlviii, 317 (908), 319 (917-18, 

920), 321 (922) 
Probity, Franklin on usefulness of, 

i, 91 
Problem, The, by Drummond, xl, 

336-7 
Problem, The, by Emerson, xln, 

I2Q9 

Problematical Principles, xxxii, 345 
Probus, the soldiers and, iii, 43 



364 



GENERAL INDEX 



Prochorus, xliv, 441 (5) 

Procula, Serrana, Pliny on, ix, 210 

Proclus, on beauty, v, 319; on God 

and the world, xxxix, 11 1; on the 

universe, v, 173, 182 
Procopius, xxxii, 188 note 30 
Procrastination, Bentham on, xxvii, 

256^ Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 13 
Procris, in Homer's Hades, xxii, 

160; in the Mournful Fields, xiii, 

226 
Proctophantasmist, in Faust, xix, 

173-4. 

Proculeius, Cleopatra and, xii, 396-7 

Proculus, meaning of name of, xii, 
162 

Proculus, Vettius, ix, 357 

Procurators, Roman, ix, 310 note 5 

Prodicus of Ceos, ii, 5 

Prodigal Son, parable of the, xliv, 
401 (11-32) 

Prodigality, Augustine, St., on, vii, 
29; economically considered, x, 
279-81; liberality and, i, 344; mo- 
tives of, x, 282; public, 282-3; 
punishment of, in Dante's Hell, 
XX, 29-30, 48 

Prodigies, Plutarch on, xii, 42 

Prodius, character of, iii, 68 

Production, bounties on, x, 404-5; 
consumption the object of, 444; 
on what dependent, 5-6, 283-4; 
improvement in, causes of, 9-28; 
improvement in, dependent on 
capital, 222\ improvements in, ef- 
fect on prices, 186-216; improve- 
ments in, raise rents, 216-17; ef- 
fects of increase in, on wages, 
profits, and interest, 297; less im- 
portant than intellectual improve- 
ment, xxviii, 363; a means, not 
an end, 230; Mill on laws of, 
XXV, 158; taxes on, x, 508-10 

Productive Labor, in agricultural 
system, x, 449-50; defined, 270; 
employment of capital is, 303-6; 
maintenance of, 271-2; proportion 
of, on what dependent, 2'jyj 

Professions, competition in, unnat- 
urally increased, x, 138-43; lib- 
eral, remuneration of, 106, 108, 
111-13 

Profitableness, Aurelius on, ii, 243 
(45), 252 (53) 

Profit (s), in by-employments, x, 125- 
6; capital and, 93, 99, 100; of 
city and country, 120; clear and 
gross, loi; as fixed by competi- 
tion, 294; defined, 55; dependent 
on prices, 123; by what deter- 
mined, 58; tendency of, to equal- 
ity, 105; extraordinary, 63-4; ef- 
fect of increase of commodities 
on, 297; effect of increase of 
money on rate of, 296-7; inequal- 
ities, natural, 107, 108-9, m? ii7> 
inequalities due to government in- 



terference, 126-52; as indicated by 
rate of interest, 94-9, 102-3; as 
affected by market fluctuations, 62- 
3; maximum of, 102; minimum of, 
1 01; an element in natural price, 
58-9;^ in new trades, 122; effect 
of high, on prices, 103-4; as af- 
fected by progress, 275; propor- 
tion in different employments, 67; 
of speculators, 120-1; of stock, as 
element in prices of commodities, 
51-2, 54; taxes on, 518; wages 
and, 1 18-19; of wholesale and re- 
tail trade, 119-20 

Profusion, a source of grandeur, 
xxiv, 68-9 

Progne, changed to swallow, xx, 181 
note 4 

Prognostics, Browne on, iii, 296; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 394, 396-7 

Progress, dependent on art, xxxii, 
244 et seq. ; Emerson on, v, 155- 
66; Goethe on, xix, 358, 361, 376- 
7; Pascal on, xlviii, 121 (354), 122 
(355) *> effect of, on landlords, 
capitalists, and wage-earners, x, 
216-20; effect on prices, 186-216; 
liberty necessary to, iii, 232 et 
seq.; Tennyson on, xlii, 1018-19; 
due to wants, xxxiv, 18 1-2; of 
wealth, X, 57, 319-24 

Progressive Development, Darwin 
on, xi, 22^, 22S-g; objection to 
law of, 220 

Progressive State, effect of, on 
profits, X, 93; effect of, on wages, 
73-5, 85-6 

Prohibition, Mill on, xxv, 296-7 

Projects, Franklin on new, i, 131; 
imprudent, economically consid- 
ered, X, 281; Penn on, i, 360 

Prologue, A, by Burns, vi, 273-4 

Prologue Spoken at Dumfries, vi, 

393 
Prologues to Famous Books, xxxix 
Promeneia, the^ priestess, xxx.'ii, 32 
Prometheus, crime and punishment 
of, viii, 156-9; fire stolen by, 157 
note, 160 note; Heracles and, 182, 
186 note 63; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
391; lo and, viii, 177-86; Jove 
and, V, 96; lament of, viii, 159- 
61; marriage with Hesione, 167, 
175; Mazzini on, xxxii, 418; with 
ocean nymphs, viii, 161-6; with 
Okeanos, 166-9; his services to 
man, 164-5, i7i-3*> type of human 
nature, iii, 17; Zeus and, viii, 182, 

^^7-94 

Prometheus Bound, viii, 156-94; 
editorial remarks on, 3 ; Voltaire 
on, xxxix, 382 

Promises, of captives, fable of, xvii, 
34; Descartes on, xxxiv, 22; of 
enemies, fable on, xvii, 30; Goethe 
on written, xix, 66-7; Kant on, 
xxxii, 332-3* 35o» 353, 360; inlaw, 



GENERAL INDEX 



365 



xxxiv, 410-17; Marcus Aurelius on 
breaking, ii, 209 (7) ; Penn on, i, 
356-7; of princes, xxxvi, 59-60; 
of princes, Beaumont on, xlvii, 
641; Yu-tzu on, xliv, 6 (13) 
Promissory Notes, as money, x, 

264-5 

Proofs, Hume on, xxxvii, 351 note, 
397; Pascal on, xlviii, 19 (40) 

Propagation (see Population) 

Propensity, and inclination, xxxii, 
356 note 

Property, Burke on representation 
of, xxiv, 199-200; under democ- 
racy, xxviii, 466-7; denunciations 
of, their origin, 469; elective 
franchise based on, v, 251-2; 
xxviii, 466-7; Emerson on cares 
and uses of, v, 51, 52; Emerson 
on the institution of, 49, 252; 
Emerson on reforms of, 269; 
Emerson on wrongs of, 99; by 
gift or inheritance, 251; in labor, 
X, 129; in land, effect on wages, 
69; Locke on, xxxiv, 209; Locke 
on love of, xxxvii, 91, 97; 
Lowell on rights of, xxviii, 477, 
484; Mill on private, xxv, 149; 
More on system of, xxxvi, 176-8, 
250-3; Pascal on private, xlviii, 
106 (295); Pascal on rights of, 
383-4; reliance on, is want of 
self-reliance; v, 87; Rousseau on, 
xxxiv, 202; Rousseau on origin 
of, 206, 212; Rousseau on effects 
of system, 214-15; secures private, 
U. S. Constitution, xliii, 207-8; 
weight of, in government, v, 

^253 

Prophecies, Bacon on, lii, 95-8; 
Browne on, 311; Hume on, 
xxxvii, 414-15; not miracles, 
xlviii, 285-6; among pagans, xxxiv, 
396-7; Pascal on, xlviii, 218-23, 
230, 236, 237-64, 287-8; Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 300-1 

Prophesying, St. Paul on, xlv, 520 
(1-6), 521 (22-5), 522 (37-9) 

Prophets, armed and unarmed, 
xxxvi, 22\ God's compact with 
the, xlv, 969 note; Lessing on 
Hebrew, xxxii, 199; Milton on 
Hebrew, iv, 408; not acceptable 
in own country, xliv, 369 (24) 

Proportion, as cause of beauty, 
xxiv, 78-89; Emerson on love of, 
v, 218; in works of art, xxiv, 

91-3 
Proportional Representation, xxv, 

165-6, 193. 
Proprietors, in agricultural system, 

X, 448 
Propriety, Tzu-hsia on, xliv, 66 

(11); works on, xxvii, 172-3 
Propylaen, Introduction to the, 

xxxix, 264-80 



Prose, in the drama, xxxix, 393; 

poetry and, Wordsworth on, 290- 

I ; qualities of fit, xxviii, 83 
Proserpine, Dis and, iv, 164; the 

moon called, xx, 43 note 9 (see 

also Persephone) 
Proserpine, The Garden of, xlii, 

^251-3 

Prosopitis, island of, xxxni, 25 

Prosper, on idleness, xxxix, 14 

Prosperity, Arabian verses on, xvi, 
213; Bacon on, iii, 17; its de- 
pendence on virtue, xliii, 243; de- 
pendent on God, xliv, 315; Eccle- 
siASTEs on, 348 (14); excessive, 
punished by Nemesis, ix, 285 
note; happiness and, i, 360, 361; 
Kempis on, vii, 237 (2), 278 (3, 
4); love and, iii, 29; Machiavelli 
on blindness of, xxxvi, 83; Mar- 
cus Aurelius on, ii, 261 (33); 
Pascal on, xlviii, 46 (107), 361; 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 70, loo-i; 
religion and, iii, 46 

Prospero, in The Tempest, with 
Miranda, tells his story, xlvi, 381- 
7; with Ariel, 387-91; with Cali- 
ban, 391-3; with Ferdinand, 394- 
7; in scene of Ferdinand and 
Miranda, 413, 414* 415; plot 
against, 416-18; invisible at ban- 
quet, 420, 421, 422-3; betroths 
Miranda to Ferdinand, 423-5, 
427; in the conspiracy of Caliban, 
428-30, 431-2; in final scene, 432- 
42; epilogue spoken by, 442 

Prospice, by Browning, xlii, 11 06 

Prostitution, Bacon on, iii, 177-8; 
Blake on, xli, 604; in ancient 
Germany, xxxiii, 106; Luther on 
houses of, xxxvi, 350; punishment 
of, in old England, xxxv, 384-5 

Protagoras, banishment of, xxxvii, 
416; books burned in Athens, iii, 
203; wealth of, x, 142 

Protasius, the martyr, vii, 153 

Protean Genera, xi, 60-1 

Protective Duties, Smith on, x, 348- 
65; removal of, 365-9 

Protectorate, The English (see In- 
strument OF (jOVERNMENT) 

Proteic Matter, formation of, 

xxxviii, 379-80 
Protesilaus and Laodamia, xli, 679- 

83 

Protestant Church, music of, xxxix, 
441-2 

Protestantism, Catholicism and, iii, 
266^ (3), 268 (5); Shelley on, 
xviii, 2y'; (see also Reformation) 

Proteus, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 54- 
6; called Carpathian Wizard, iv, 
69; Menelaus and, xxii, 58-63; 
Milton on, iv, 153; iii^ 240; repre- 
sentative of nature, v, 239 

pROTHAtAMioN, Spcnscr's, xl, 233-8 



366 



GENERAL INDEX 



Proud Word You Never Spoke, xli, 

Proudhon, not the first against prop- 
erty, xxviii, 469 
Proverbs, Don Quixote on, xiv, 175; 
Emerson on, v, 97-8; law of com- 
pensation in, 98; Manzoiii on, xxi, 
78; the ready money of expe^j- 
ence, xxviii, 451 
Proverbs, Book of, paraphrase from, 

xxxix, 309-10 
Providence, academics on, xxxix, 
114; Browne on, iii, 278, 281-3; 
Calvin on, xxxix, 52; epic poetry 
requires belief in, xiii, 49; Epic- 
tetus on, ii, 126 (28), 129 (36), 
134 (53)» 158 (110), 162 (125), 
184 (24); Franklin on, i, 6, 58, 
80, 94; Hume on, xxxvii, 362-5, 
422-3; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 201 
(3); More on, xxxvi, 240; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 336; Raleigh on, xxxix, 
73-93. 103-9; Washington on, xliii, 
242; Woolman on, i, 185 • 
Provinces, Machiavelli on acquired, 
xxxvi, 8-12, 18-19; arms in ac- 
quired, 72; factions in, 72-3 
Provisions (see Food-supply) 
Proxenus, office of, xii, 120 note 
Prudence, Burns on, in enjoyment, 
vi, 337; Dante's allegory of, xx, 
268 note 13; Dante's star of, 148 
note 5; Emerson on, v, 60-1, 129, 
162; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 333-4, 349, 
365-6, 375» 402; Kant on impera- 
tives of, xxxii, 346, 348-9; Kempis 
on, vii, 217-18; Locke on, xxxvii, 
82; of speech, Burke on, xxiv, 
158; Whitman on, xxxix, 425-8; 
in youth, Sheridan on, xviii, 137 
Prudence, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 54-5, 230-3, 238-9 
Prudentius, Walton on, xv, 361 
Prusa, baths at, ix, 415 
Prynne, on the drama, xxxiv, 156-7 
Psalm, First, Paraphrased, vi, 34 
Psalm, Nineteenth, Versified, vi, 

35 
Psalm cxiv. Paraphrase of, iv, 15 
Psalm cxxxvi. Paraphrase of, iv, 

16-18 
Psalm for the Chapel of Kil- 
marnock, vi, 356-7 
Psalm of Life, xlii, 1316-17 
Psalm-singing, origin of, vii, 153 
Psalms, The Book of, xliv, 147- 
336; Augustine, St., on, vii, 148- 
9; editorial remarks on, xliv, 
146; 1, 31; Esdras and, xlviii, 
215; idea of God in, xxiv, 61; 
Herbert on, xv, 405; Hymns 
based on, xlv, 547-52; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 198 (596); Sidney on, 
xxvii, 11; Smart on, xli, 499-510 
Psammetichos, king of Egypt, 
xxxiii, 5-6, 17, 18-19, 78-81 



Psammis, king of E^pt, xxxiii, 82-3 

Psellus, Michael, xli, 702 
Pseudo-Martyr, of Dr. Donne, xv, 

328-344 
Psyche, Cupid and, Milton on, iv, 

73 
Psyche, Ode to, xH, 904-6 
Psychology, future of, xi, 527 
Ptolemy, and Gabinius, xii, 335, 

336 
Ptolemy Ceraunus, xii, 86 note 
Ptolemy Epiphanes, xlviii, 254 
Ptolemy Euergetes, xlviii, 253, 254 
Ptolemy Philadelphus, xlviii, 253 
Ptolemy Philopator, xlviii, 253 
Ptolemy Soter, xlviii, 253 
Ptolemy, son of Abubus, xx, 141 

note 5 
Ptolomea, round of, in Hell, xx, 141 

note 5 
Public Affairs, boldness in, iii, 33 
Public Buildings, in war (agreement 

with Mexico), xliii, 325 
Public, flattery of the, not equal to 

truth, ix, 40-1; ingratitude of, xix, 

170; Mill on the, xxv, 223 (see 

also People, Populace) 
Public Debts, Burke on, xxiv, 255- 

6, 261, 303; Smith on, x, 574-90 
Public Duties, Christianity and, xxv, 

253-4 
Public Education, Mill on, xxv, 315- 

17 

Public Hospitals, idea of Thomas 
Bond, i, 121 

Public Institutions, expence of, x, 
473-88 

Public Interests, in relation to land- 
lords, capitalists, and wage-earn- 
ers, X. 217-20 

Public Lands, as source of revenue, 

X, 493-7 

Public Libraries, Carlyle on, ^ xxv, 
391; proposed by Franklin, i, 69- 
70 

Public Life, character in, v, 192-3; 
Epictetus on, ii, 160 (117); Penn 
on, i, 370-1 

Public Measures, Franklin on, i, 131 

Public Men, complaints of, iii, 26; 
Franklin on, i, 93 

Public ()ffice, Bacon on, iii, 29-32; 
Channing on, xxviii, 329; Cicero 
on conduct of, ix, 134; Confucius 
on, xliv, 45 (20), 50 (27); often 
held in contempt, ix, 37; Emerson 
on corruption in, v, 289; Frank- 
lin on holding, i, 111-12; in New 
Atlantis, iii, 156, 158; qualifica- 
tions for, i, 371-4; xxiv, 198-9; 
Tzu-lu on, xliv, 64 (see also Offi- 
cials) 

Public Opinion, Emerson on inde- 
pendence of, v,^ 68, 69; Epictetus 
on dread oiF, ii, 171 (150), 174 
(158), 176 (172); government by. 



GENERAL INDEX 



367 



xxviii, 482; improper field for, 
XXV, 291-6;^ Kempis on independ- 
ence of, vii, 254-5; Marcus Aure- 
Hus on, ii, 208 (4), 271 (18), 273 
(^2^), 274 (34), 300 (4); Socrates 
on, 297 {22,^ ; Mill on, xxv, 163, 
271-2, 275,279-80; Pliny on weight 
of, ix, 321; Plutarch on desire of, 
xii, 253 and note; proper field 
of, xxv, 283-4, 290-1; Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 70, T2\ Socrates on, ii, 33- 
4» 35-7; tyranny of, xxv, 207-10, 
234-6; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 353 

Public Ownership, objections to, xxv, 
320-3 

Public Peculators, in Dante's Hell, 
XX, 87-8, 91-4 

Public Revenges, Bacon on, iii, 16 

Public Schools, Locke on, xxxvii, 

53-7 
Public Service, in Body of Liber- 
ties, xliii, 71 
Public Spiritedness, Mill on, xxv, 69 
Public Works, expence of, x, 473-8 
Public Worship, Franklin on, i, 81; 

Penn on, 377-8 (473) 
Publicans, xliv, 366 note^ 2 
Publicola, at Actium, xii, 386, 387 
Publilia, wife of Cicero, ix, 5, 82; 

xii, 261 
Publius, Paul and, xliv, 494 (7-8) 
Pucci, Antonio, xxxi, 222 note 
Pucci, Roberto, xxxi, 119 note 4, 

232 
Puck, in Faust, xix, 177, 183 
Pudens, Servilius, legate to Pliny, 

ix, 385 
Puerperal ^ Fever, Contagiousness 

OF, xxxviii, 235-68 
Puerperal Fever, relations with ery- 

sipelas, xxxviii, 249, 253 note, 255, 

2(i2y 266, 2^"]% with other fevers, 

262-3; Pasteur on, 395-401 
Puffendorf, on liberty, xxxiv, 223; 

works of, xxxvii, 168-9 
Pugliano, John Pietro, xxvii, 7 
Pulci, Luigi, xxxi, 65-71; Dryden 

on, xiii, 13; reference to, xxvii, 

390 
Pulley, The, by Herbert, xl, 355-6 
Pulleys, power and velocity in, xxx, 

190-2 
Pulmonary Artery, Harvey on the, 

xxxviii, 74, 75, 84, 85, 93, 96, 97, 

102, 145, 146, 147 
Pulmonary Veins, uses of, xxxviii, 
^ 75-6, 93, 96, 145, 147 
Pulse, Galen on the, xxxviii, 68; 

Harvey on the, 68-73, 81, 84-6, 92, 

129, 135, 146 
PuLTENEY, Charlotte, Lines to, xl, 

451-2 
Puma, habits of the, xxix, 286-7; 

meat of the, 129 
Punch, Emerson on London, v, 470, 

490-1 
Punctuality, Swift on, xxvii, no 



Punishment, of children, xxxvii, 36, 
37-9, 40-1, 42, 43-4, 44-5, 59, 64-6, 
69-72, 99-100, no; Confucius on, 
xliv, 7 (3);, judicial, in Massa- 
chusetts, xliii, ']^ (46); Marshall 
on power of, 234-5 ; as means of 
association, xxv, 90-1 ; Montaigne 
on corporal, xxxii, 57-8 

Punishments, cruel, ^ forbidden in 
United States, xliii, 208 (8) ; pre- 
scribed, Winthrop on, 96-106, 107- 
8, iio-ii 

Punna, the slave-girl, xlv, 628 

Punnavaddhana, xlv, 'j'j2 

Punta Alta, remains at, xxix, 93-5 

Purana, Taine on the Indian, xxxix, 
436 

Purdie, Tom, description of, xxv, 
448-9 

Purgatory, Dante*s visit to, xx, 147- 
286; gate of, guarded by St. 
Peter's angel, 9 note 1 1 ; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 266, 2^"]% Pascal on, 
xlviii, 171 (518), 344; of St. Pat- 
rick, xxxii, 185-7; Shakespeare on, 
xlvi, 107-8; Socrates's idea of, ii, 
no 

Purification, Dante on, xx, 233 

Purist, in Faust, xix, 179 

Puritans, Defoe on the, xxvii, 145- 
6; editorial remarks on the, iv, 6; 
Emerson on the, v, 38; on secular 
music, vi, 17 

Purity, Kempis on, vii, 252 

Purity, The Way of, xlv, 717-19 

Purpose, Epictetus on, in life, ii, 
118 (2); lack of, 202 (7), 205 
(16), 207 (4); Marcus Aurelius 
on, 212 (14), 213 (2); Shake- 
speare on, xlvi, 144 

Pursuits, Mohammed on ill-chosen, 
xlv, 927 

Pursy, Mrs., in School for Scan- 
dal, xviii, 1 30-1 

Purusha, xlv, ^(i2 

Purushottama, xlv,^ 869 

Pus, due to bacteria, xxxviii, 270; 
Pasteur on microbe of, 387-8 
(see also Suppuration) 

Pusey, Edward B., translator of St. 
Augustine, vii 

Pusillanimity, defined by Hobbes, 
xxxiv, 354; why dishonorable, 380; 
irresolution and, 387 

Putijma, the cacique, xxxiii, 381, 

385 
Putrefaction, cause of, xxxviii, 271 
Putyma, lord of Aromaia, xxxiii, 

363 
Pygmalion, king of Tyre, xiii, %"]% 

Dante on, xx, 230 
Pygmies, war of, with cranes, iv, 

104 
Pylades, in The Libation-Bearers, 

yiii, 107; Orestes and, vii, 53; 

ix, 17; Sidney on, xxvii, 13 



36S 



GENERAL INDEX 



Pyramids, of Egypt, Herodotus on, 
xxxiii, 64-6, 68, 70; Emerson on, 
xlii, 1300; Milton on, iv, 107 

Pyramis, and the mulberry, xx, 

Pyramus, and Thisbe, xx, 257 
Pyrgo, the nurse, xiii, 203 
Pyrilampes, and Pericles, xii, 53 
Pyriphlegethon, Homer on the, xxii, 

150; Plato on, ii, 109, no 
Pyrrha, and Deucalion, iv, 323 
Pyrrhic Dance, Byron on the, xli, 

834 

Pyrrhonism, Carlyle on, xxv, 356; 
Hume on, xxxvii, 439, 440-1 ; of 
Montaigne, xlviii, 395 

Pyrrhus, king of ^ Epirus, Appius's 
speech against, ix, 51; Cicero on, 
18; in Dante's Hell, xx, 54; 
Decius on, ix, 61 ; called Epirot 
prince, xx, 308 note 1 1 ; Machi- 
avelli on, xxxvi, 18; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 53; surnamed the Eagle, 
xii, 86 note 

Pyrrhus, son of Achilles, Androm- 
ache and, xiii, 14 1-2; Chaucer 
* on, xl, 49; Homer on (Neoptol- 
emus), xxii, 165; Priam killed 
by, xiii, 121-2; Priam and, 
Shakespeare on, xlvi, 129-30; 
slain by Orestes, xiii, 142; in 
Trojan horse, 112; in sack of 
Troy, 119-20 

Pythagoras, Dandini on, ▼, 279; 
Emerson on, 70, 183; Golden 
Verses of, i, 85; on guardian 
spirits, iii, 297 (33) ; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 360; on life, xxxii, 47; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 243 (47) ; 
proverb of, iii, 72; school of, 
256-7; Sidney on, xxvii, 9; on 
the soul, ix, 74; on suicide, 72 

Pythagoreans, custom of the, xxxix, 
56; alleged debt to British phi- 
losophy, iii, 233-4; on the stars, 
ii, 297 (27) 

Pytheas, the orator, Antipater and, 
xii, 220; on Demosthenes, 203 

Pythian Lord, Apollo called the 
viii, 23 

Pythoclides, teacher of Pericles, 
xii, 39 

Python, the Byzantine, xii, 203 

Python, the serpent, Milton on, iv, 
308 

8UA CURSUM VeNTUS, xlii, II 67 
_uadians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

1 19-20 
Quadratilla, Numidia, Pliny on, ix, 

324-5 
Quadratus, Numidius, Pliny on, ix, 

296-7, 324-6 
Quagga, descent of the, xi, 17 1-4 
Quail, falling sickness of, xxxv, 352 
Quakers, attitude of, toward lot- 



teries, i, 112-13, 253; attitude of, 
toward war, 1 12-14, 116, 198-200, 
225-8; duty toward unwise laws, 
294; in England, 319; epistle of 
(1759), 239-43; Folger on persecu- 
tion of, 9; in French and Indian 
War, 228-30; history of, xxxiv, 
71-9; Lamb on, xli, 753; princi- 
ples of, i, 236; settlements of, in 
America, 239-40; shifts to support 
their principles, 1 14-15; slavery 
and, 176, 215, 216-17, 221, 233-4, 
238, 261, 284; Smith on decline 
of, 283; Voltaire on doctrines of, 
xxxiv, 65-71 (see also Woolman, 
Penn) 

Qualities, of Hinduism, xlv, 864-6, 
880; primary and secondary, 
xxxvii, 219, 223-4, 435-6 

Quarles, Francis, An Ecstasy, xl, 

350-1 
Quarrels, causes of,^ xxxiv, 404; 

Shakespeare on, xlvi, 102 
Quasir, god of poetry, xlix, 427 note 
Quatrefages, M., on hybrids, xi, 304 
Queens, Bacon on, iii, 52-3; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 58-9 
Queen's Return from Low Coun- 
tries, xl, 368 
Queintanonina, Lady, Don Quixote 

on, xiv, 515 
Quesnai, Mr., on agricultural sys- 
tem, X, 457-9> 464 
Questions, Bacon on habit of ask- 
ing, iii, 88; Buddha on useless, 
xlv, 662-7; of children, xxxvii, 
III, 112-14; Stevenson on, xxviii, 
292; sudden, iii, 62-3 
Quiescence, Buddha on, xlv, 721 
Quillota, Chili, Darwin on, xxix, 271 
Quinault, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 148 
Quintilian, on the body in speaking, 
ix, 236 note; Mill on, xxv, 19; 
teacher of Pliny, ix, 193 
Quintius, Titus, conqueror of Mace- 
don, xxxvi, 83; Milton on, iv, 387 
Quirinius, governor of Syria, xliv, 

362 (2) 
Quiriquina, earthquake at, xxix, 

321-7 
Quixada, Guttierre, xiv, 515-16 
Quotations, Cervantes on, xiv, 8-1 1; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 161; Montaigne 
on, xxxii, 31 
Quran, xlv, 944 
R. T. H. B., To, xlii, 1258 
Rabaud, M., on National Assembly, 

xxiv, 315 note 
Rabbi Ben Ezra, xlii, 1148-53 
Rabbinism, chronology of, xlviii, 216 
Rabbits, descent of, xi, $6; in Falk- 
land Islands, xxix, 207-8 
Rabelais, Hazlitt^ on, xxvii, 294; 
Hugo on, xxxix, 369; language 
of, 394; Montaigne on, xxxii, 91; 
Morris-Dance of Heretics, iii, 12; 



GENERAL INDEX 



369 



Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 109, 134; 

Voltaire on, xxxiv, 151 
Rabirius Posthumus, his desire for 

riches, iii, 92 
Race, the, is not to the swift, xliv, 

351 dO 
Race, blood relationship, as tested 
by, xxviii, 251-2, 254-61; counter- 
acting forces to, v, 351-2; Emer- 
son on influence of, 350-1; exten- 
sion of ties of, xxviii, 282-3; lan- 
guage and, editor's remarks on, 
1, 18; language not a proof of, 
xxviii, 244-8; language a practical 
test of, 261-82; language as a pre- 
sumption of, 248-54; meaning of 
word, 234; not a fixed thing, v, 
352; sentiment of, its growing im- 
portance, xxviii, 235-43; Taine on, 
xxxix, 446-7 (see also Races) 
Race and Language, Freeman's, 

xxviii, 233-83 
Race, Cape, Hayes on, xxxiil, 296 
Races, Emerson on human, v, 349; 
origin of, xxviii, 254-8; political 
divisions and, 261-2; Taine on dif- 
ferences of, xxxix, 443-56 
Rachel, in Dante's Limbo, xx, 12, 
18; in Dante's Paradise, 420; 
Milton on, iv, 29; references to, 
xxvii, 338; xlii, 1330; type of con- 
templative life, XX, 259 note 4 
Racine, Jean Baptiste, Hugo on, 
xxxix, 381, 390-1; Hugo on Atha- 
lie of, 371-2; Hume on Athalia 
of, xxvii, 234; life and works, 
xxvi, 124; Ph^dra, 125-85; Sainte- 
Beuve on Athalie of, xxxii, 131; 
Taine on, xxxix, 435 ^ 
Radcliffe, Dr^^ on electric fish, xi, 

198 
Radicalism, Emerson on, v, 274 
RafiFael (see Raphael) 
Rafinesque, on species, xi, 13 
Ragamuffins, The Pack of, xvii, 

69-70 
Rage, Hcbbes on, xxxiv, 367 
Raging Fortune, a fragment, vi, 38 
Rahab, in Dante's Paradise, xx, 

325 ; lies of, xv, 264 
Raillery, in conversation, xviii, 116; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 130; Swift on, 
xxvii, 1 01 
Raimbaud, Dante on, xx, 363 note 4 
Rainbow, cause of the, xxxiv, 124; 
the first, iv, 344-5; lesson of the, 
XV, 238 
Rainy Day, The, xlii, 1326 
Rajas, xlv, 864, 873, 875, 878, 879, 

880 
Rakshasas, xlv, 873 note 
Raleigh, Sir Walter, colony of, 
xxxiii, 234, 235, 266-7; Discovery 
of Guiana, 311-94; dream of El- 
dorado, X, 422; Emerson on, v, 
191; Gilbert and, xxxiii, 270, 282, 



283; His Pilgrimage, xl, 206; 
Jonson on, xxvii, 60-1 ; language 
of, xxxix, 206; life and works, 
xxxiii, 310; xxxix, 69 note; The 
Lie, xl, 207-10; Preface to His- 
tory of World, xxxix, 69-121; 
editor's remarks on Preface, 3 ; 
1, 24, 33; Reply to Marlowe's 
Passionate Shepherd, xl, 260-1; 
St. Joseph captured by, xxxiii, 
325; Spenser's letter to, xxxix, 
64-8; Trinidad explored by, xxxiii, 
321-3; Verses, xl, 210; What is 
Our Life, 210 
Ralph, in Faustus, xix, 226-9 
Ralph, in Shoemaker's Holiday, 
sent to the wars, xlvii, 451-4; his 
return, 476-8; at Lord Mayor's, 
481 ; reported dead, 485 ; at Hodge's 
shop, 487-9; with wife's shoe, 489- 
91; stops Hammon's wedding, 499- 
500; reunited to Jane, 500-2; mis- 
taken for Rowland, 503; at Lord 
Mayor's dinner, 507, 513 
Ralph, James, i, 38-40, 40-1, 43, 44- 

5, 51, 157 
Rama, teachings of, xlv, 735 
Ramath-lechi, Samson at, iv, 422 
Ramayana, The, remarks on, xlv, 

800 
Ramazan, reference to, xli, 985 
Rambler, Johnson's, xxvii, 164 
Ram-Dass, Carlyle on, xxv, ^^22 
Ramiel, in Paradise Lost, iv, 216 
Rammaka, monastery of, xlv, 730 
Ramsay, Sir Andrew Crombie, on 
the cuckoo, xi, 272; on degrada- 
tion, 336-7; on faults, 338 
Ramsay, Allan, Peggy, xl, 411-12; 
Burns 911, vi, 16, 87, 92, 93, 435 
Ramuzzini, on diseases of over- 
work, X, 86 
Ran, the goddess, xlix, 305 note 
Rand, and the adder, v, 286 
Randolph of Roanoke, xlii, 1416- 

19 
Randver, son of Jormunrek, xlix, 

376-8, 444, 453 note 
Rank(s), Channing on, xxviii, 355-8; 
is but the guinea's stamp, vi, 
546; not inconsistent with liberty, 
iv, 203; Pascal on, xlviii, 383, 
384, 386; without bounty, xliv, 
12 (26) 
Rankine, John, Epistle to, vi, 

57-9 
Rankine, John, Epitaph on, vi, 

64 
Rankine, John, Reply to an- 
nouncement of, vi, 56 
Rantin Dog, The, vi, 191 
Rantin, Rovin Robin, vi, 98-9 
Ranulph, of Chester, xxxv, 24^ 
Rapacity, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 

56, 62 
Raphael, the archangel, in Faust, 



370 



GENERAL INDEX 



xix, i6; in Paradise Lost, iv, 

189-263 

Raphael, the painter, accused of 

immorality, xxvii, 374; Agostino 

Chigi and, xxxi, 35 note 4; 

Andrea del Sarto and, xlii, 11 35; 

Emerson on, v, 188; Hazlitt on, 

xxvii, 293; II Fattore and, xxxi, 

35 note 3; Madonnas of, xlii, 

1 138; sonnets of, 11 37-8 

Rapture, David on, xli, 503; so 

deep its ecstasy was pain, xix, 13 

Rapunzel, story of, xvii, 71-4 

Rare Things, Penn on, i, 345 (69) 

Rarity, forerunner of extinction, 

xxix, 190 
Rashness, belongs to youth, ix, 53; 
Emerson on, v, 114; Penn on, 

i, 351 (119) 
Rasselas, Johnson's, xxvii, 164 
Rastall, Judge, Walton on, xv, 327 
RastelH, Giacomo, xxxi, 100 note 3 
Rat, Brander's song of the, xix, 

82-3 
Rational, term, ii, 280 (8) 
Rational Soul, Marcus Aurelius on 

the, ii, 289 (i) 
Rationalism, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 

299-301 
Rats, range of, xi, 153-4 
Ratsey, Gamaliel, xlvii, 524 note 19 
Rattlesnakes, Dana on, xxiii, 161-2; 

Darwin on, xi, 213 
Rattlin Roarin Willie, vi, 268 
Raulin, Jules, xxxviii, 376 note 
Rause, James, xxxiii, 138, 139, 148 
Raven, The, by Poe, xlii, 1276-80 
Ravenna, battle of, Macaulay on, 

xvii, 412-3; Machiavelli on, xxxvi. 

Ravens, Epictetus on, ii, 134 (53); 

Harrison on, xxxv, 357 
Ravens, The Three, xl, 74 
Ravens, The Seven, xvii, 114-16 
Ravillac, murderer of Henry IV, iii, 

103 
Raving Winds Around Her Blow- 
ing, vi, 315 
Ravishment, divine enchanting, iv, 

53 

Rawley, Dr., Bacon's literary ex- 
ecutor, iii, 152 

Reaction, in human affairs, v, 294-5 
(see also Polarity) 

Read, Rebecca, first marriage of, i, 
51-52; Franklin and, 26, 29, 37- 
38, 40, 43, 69, 80 

Readers, of poetry, three classes of, 
xiii, 60-2 

Reading, Bacon on, iii, 128-9; Car- 
lyle on, xxv, 380-1, 389-90; Chan- 
ning on, xxyiii, 349-50; for chil- 
dren, xxxvii, 140-3; choice of, 
xxviii, 102; Confucius on, xliv, 20 
<ii), 21 (25), 40 (15); Emerson 



on our, V, 73; Emerson on right, 
11-12; Epictetus on, ii, 170 (145); 
folly of trying to limit, iii, 209- 
15; for girls, xxviii, 155-7; Kempis 
on, vii, 218; Locke on instruction 
in, xxxvii, 137-40; Marcus Aure- 
lius on, ii, 194 (7); Milton on, 
iv, 407; Newman on education by, 
xxviii, 31-2, 33-8; Pascal on, xlviii, 
25 (69); Pliny on, ix, 318; power 
given by, xxviii, 139-40; prepara- 
tion for, 102-3; proper method 
of, 103-17; true, impossible under 
modern conditions, 119 (see also 
Books) 

Ready-to-halt, in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 177, 279, 288, 292, 316, 
317-18 

Ready-writing, Carlyle on, xxv, 460- 
4; Dryden on, xxxix, 163 

Real Existence, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 
205-72, 281-5, 287-302; Buddhist 
denial of, xlv, 672-3, 677; Des- 
cartes on, xxxiv, 29; Ecclesiastes 
on, xliv, 348 (24) ; Emerson on, 
V, 104; Hume on evidences of, 
xxxvii, 324-36, 342, 349, 35o, 433» 
439. 443-4; Montaigne on, xlviii, 
398; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 250-1; 
Schiller on, xxxii, 253-4; Socrates 
on, ii, 90-6 

Real Presence, Pascal on, xlviii, 
306-7; Tillotson on, xxxvii, 396 

Realist, in Faust, xix, 182 

Realities of Imagination, Hunt's, 
xxvii, 304-10 

Reality, alone beautiful, v, 312; in 
art, Hugo on, xxxix, 385-6 

Reaper, The Solitary, xli, 670-1 

Reason, in animals, Darwin on, xi, 
262; in animals, Descartes on, 
xxxiv, 47-8; of animals, Hume on, 
xxxvii, 392-5; Bacon on the, iii, 
8; Boileau on human, xxxiv, 145- 
6; Browne on the, iii, 269, 276-7, 
320; Burke on standards of, xxiv, 
11; Calderon on the, xxvi, 51; 
Carlyle on, xxv, 337-8; Chenier 
on, xxxii, 130; in criticism of art, 
xxvii, 227-8; Dante on, xx, 220; 
Descartes on conduct of the, xxxiv, 
5, 17-20; Descartes on equal dis- 
tribution of, 5-6; direct and in- 
direct interests of, xxxii, 391 note; 
discursive and intuitive, iv, 196; 
Epictetus on, ii, 118 (4, 6), 128 
(33)' 129 (37), 137 (59), 169 
(144); experience and, ^ xxxvii, 
340 note; xxxix, 134; faith and, 
Browne on_, iii, 273-4, 284; faith 
and, Kempis on, vii, 379 (4, 5); 
faith and, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 109; 
Franklin on, i, 36; Goethe on, 
xix, 71; habit and, xxxvii, 98; 
happiness in obedience to, ii, 202 
(8), 208 (4), 209 (6), 2X0 (7), 



GENERAL INDEX 



371 



211 (12), 223 (51); Helmholtz on 
the, XXX, 183; Hobbes's saying 
on, xxv,^ 104; Hume on objects 
of, xxxvii, 324; imagination and, 
xxvii, 367-70; xlviii, 35-6; instinct 
and, Pascal on, 119 (344); in- 
stinct and. Pope on, xl, 435; Kant 
on faculty of, xxxii, 383; Kant 
on purposes of, 325-7; Kempis on 
natural, vii, 340 (2) ; limits of 

Eractical, xxxii, 389-90, 394-5; 
rocke on the, xxxvii, 114; love 
and, xlviii, 425; man's misuse of, 
xix, 17; Marcus Aurelius on the, 
ii, 212 (15), 213 (i), 216 (13, 16), 
217 (22), 228 (10), 229 (14), 230 

(16), 231 (^2^^, 241 (35), 271 
(10), 282 (12), 286 (33), 288 

(38); Milton on, iv, 66, 2-^2% 
Montaigne on the, xlviii, 398; 
morality from, xxxii, 335-6, 338- 
40, 342; More on the, xxxvi, 208; 
"our affections' king," xl, 301 ; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 32-3, 35, 120 (345); 
the passions and, xxiv, 41 ; xxxiv, 
180-1; xlviii, 134 (142-3); Penn 
on, i, 404-5; pity and, xxxiv, 194; 
in poetry, Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 
130-1; Pope on, xl, 427-8, 430-1; 
possibility of pure, practical, xxxii, 
393-4; the province of, xlviii, 446- 
9; Raleigh on, xxxix, 104, 117 
note; in religion, xxxii, 204, 212- 
14; in religion, Pascal on, xlviii, 
81 i22(>), 84, 91 (245), 93 (252), 
94 (253), 95 (259-60), 96 (263), 
97 (267), 98 (270, 272-82), 188 
(561, 563), 316 (903); in religion, 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 1 16-17; in re- 
ligion, Renan on, xxxii, 190; 
Rochester on, xxxiv, 146-7; Schil- 
ler on the, xxxii, 293-4; Shelley 
on, xxvii, 345, 368; sensation and, 
Schiller on, xxxii, 257-63; the 
senses and, Pascal on, xlviii, 38 
(83) ; senses do not limit, xxxiv, 
32; sentiment and, xxxvii, 309; 
Shakespeare on, xlvi, 165; in 
sleep, St. Augustine on the, vii, 
190; speech and, ^ xxxiv, 340; 
**what a wretched aid," xviii, 88; 
will and, xxxii, 343 
Reasoning, from analogy, xxxvii, 
392, 395 (7) ; Bacon on, in mat- 
ters of fact, xxxix, 136, 139-40, 
142-3, 151-2; Buddha on, xlv, 747; 
with children, xxxvii, 67-8, 88, 95- 
6; difference in powers of, 394 
note; different kinds of, 351 note; 
ends of,^ xxxiv, 359-62; feeling 
and, xlviii, 9-10; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 
343-9; Hume on accurate, xxxvii, 
309-11, 437-9; Hume on demon- 
strative, 324, 332, 437-8, 443; 
Hume on, in matters of fact, 324- 
36, 338-9» 340, 341-2, 350, 393-5» 



397-9» 439, 443*4; Locke on, 170; 

Pascal on, xlviii, 410-13; Raleigh 

on, in matters of fact, xxxix, 105; 

Socrates^ on, ii, 83-4 
Rebbye, Sir Ralph, xl, 100 
Rebecca, in Dante's Paradise, xx, 

420 ^ 
Rebellion, a capital crime in early 

Massachusetts, xliii, 85-6; Hobbes 

on, xxxiv, 419-20; Machiavelli on, 

xxxvi, 9; Penn on, i, 356 (178); 

punishment of, in United States, 

xliii, 211 
Rebellions, Bacon on, iii, 38-44 
Rebels, the vanquished only are, 

xxvi, 64 
Rebirth, Buddhist doctrine of, xlv, 

693-700, 754; Hindu doctrine of, 

830, 836-7, 865, 872; old belief in, 

xlix, 392 
Rebours, M., xlviii, 326 
Recalcati, Ambrogio, xxxi, 152 note 5 
Recklessness, Confucius on, xliv, 22 

(10); Locke on, xxxvii, 102 
Recollection, Augustine, St., on, vii, 

173-82; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 332; 

knowledge as, ii, 63-8; of sorrow 

pleasant, ix, 106 
Recollection, The, by Shelley, xli, 

867-70 
Recombes, Louis de, xxxv, 44 
Recommendations, Diogenes on, ii, 

136 (57) 
Recompense, Jesus on, xliv, 399 (12- 

14) 
Reconstruction, Johnson's plan of, 

xliii, 456-8; Lincoln's plan of , 442 

note 
Recreation, labor as, xxxvii, 187-90 

(see also Diversion) 
Recreations, of children, xxxvii, 95- 

6, 118-19, 182-3 
Rectitude, beauty and power from, 

V, 292; a perpetual victory, 196; 

Pliny on doubtful, ix, 213 
Recuyell of Histories of Troy, 

xxxix, 5-9 
Red, Red Rose, vi, 514 
Red River, sediment of, xxxviii, 424 
Red Rowan, in Kinmont Willie, 

xl, 114 
Red Sea, origin of name, xxix, 25 ; 

passage of the, xliv, 282 (9), Z'2'2 

(13-15); Milton on passage of the, 

iv, 17, 99, 350-1; Mohammed on 

passage of, xlv, 915; Pascal on 

passage of, xlviii, 219, 229 
Red Shoes, The, xvii, 349-54 
Redemption, Dante on human, xx, 

313-15; Pascal on types of, xlviii, 

276 (781); typified by Red Sea, 

219, 229 
Reding, Itel, in Wilhelm Tell, 

xxvi, 401-14 
Redman, Sir Matthew, at Otterburn, 

xxxv, 95; Lindsay and, 97-8, 100 



372 



GENERAL INDEX 



Redman, Mercy, i, 251, 255, .258 

Redress, for every wrong, xviii, 309 

Reed and Tree, fable of, xvii, 25 

Reeds of Innocence, xli, 599 

Reefs, coral, Darwin on, xxix, 491- 
505; as showing areas of subsi- 
dence, 505-6 

Rees, William, xxxii, 145; on saints 
of Wales, 181 

Reeve, Chaucer's, xl, 27-8; Dryden 
on Chaucer's, xxxix, 174 

Refinement, Channing on, xxviii, 
357-8 (see also Culture) 

Reflection, Buddha on, xlv, 747; 
Epictetus on, ii, 159 (115); Goethe 
on, xxxix, 265 ; Locke on habit 
of, xxxvii, 163; Marcus Aurelius 
on, ii, 253 (59); necessary to 
poets, xxxix, 312; Rousseau on 
faculty of, xxxiv, 251-3; Schiller 
on, xxxii, 297 

Reform, Bacons advice on, iii, 31; 
Bacon on popular, 48; Burke on 
methods of, xxiv, 316-18; Des- 
cartes on political, xxxiv, 14-15; 
destruction and, Burke on, xxiv, 
305; false methods of opposing, 
xxvii, 237-65; innovation contrast- 
ed with, xxiv, 411; Lowell on, 
xxviii, 484-5; Lowell on opposi- 
tion to, 471-2; More on, xxxvi, 
150, 174-6; Tennyson on, xlii, 
1033-5 

Reform Bill, English, Emerson on, 
V, 377; Wordsworth on, 336 

Reformation, Browne on the, iii, 
266 (2), 2(i7 (4); early attempts 
at, XXV, 231; in England, iii, 234; 
Hobbes on causes of the, xxxiv, 
401-2; Lowell on the, xxviii, 469; 
Luther's Articles of, xxxvi, 302- 
52; Luther's part in the, 260; 
jfames Mill on the, xxv, 33;Taine 
on the, xxxix, 457; Woolman on 
the, i, 288; works concerning the, 
1, 24 

Reformation in Scotland, Preface 
TO Knox's, xxxix, 61-3 

Reformer, Man the, v, 45-61 

Reformers, Burke on, xxiv, 211-12; 
Emerson on, v, 268-9 

Reformers, Fallacies of Anti-, 
xxvii, 237-65 

Reformers, New England, v, 263- 
81 

Regan, in King Lear, xlvi, 205; 
farewell to Cordelia, 211; plot 
against father, 212; at Glouces- 
ter's, 232-3, 234, 237; with father, 
«42-8; with Gloucester, 263-6; with 
Oswald, her love for Edmund, 
275-6; with Edmund, before bat- 
tle, 288-9; after battle, quarrel 
over Edmund, 293-4; her sickness, 
294-5; poisoned by Goneril, 299; 
Ruskin on, xxviii, 143 



Regelation of Ice, xxx, 244, 254-6 

Regency Bill, Ode on the De* 
parted, vi, 351-3 

Regimen of Health, Essay on. 
Bacon's, iii, 85-6 

Regin, the Lay of, xlix, 267; Sigurd 
and, 302, 303-8, 312-13; slaying 
of, 316-17 

Regiomontanus, prophecy of, iii, 97 
(see Miiller, John) 

Registration Duties, x, 528-34 

Regnault, on mechanical equivalent 
of heat, xxx, 209 

Regnault's Apparatus, xxx, 198-9 

Regnier, Mathurin, Sainte-Beuve on, 
xxxii, 134 

Regrets, Emerson on, v, 81 

Regulus, Marcus, Aurelia and, ix, 
239; Blaesus and, 239; Pliny on, 
196-9, 216, 239-40, 261, 262, 291* 
2; his son, 260-1, 262; Verania 
and, 238 

Regulus, Marcus Atilius, Bacon on, 
iii, 137; death of, ix, 7^; Milton 
on, iv, 387 

Rehoboam, Dante on, xx, 194 

Reinauld, of Mount Alban, xiv, 
21-2 

Reincarnation, Lessing on, xxxii, 
216-17 

Relations, and friends, Cicero on, 
ix, 14 

Relations of Ideas, xxxvii, 324 

Relaxation, Amasis on need of, 
xxxiii, 87-8; Pascal on, xlviii, 15 
(24), 127 (380); sudden, effect 
of, xxiv, 124 

Relevancy, in writing, Pliny on, ix, 
284 

Relics, Browne on, iii, 293 (28) ; 
Hume on, xxxvii, 348; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 29s (839), 340, 365 

Reliefs, feudal, x, 530 

Religio Medici, Browne's, iii, 263- 
347; editorial remarks on, 1, 34 

Religion, of ascetic natures, xxviii, 
177, 178-9; on authority, Chan- 
ning on, 354-5; on authority, 
Emerson on, v, 152-3; on author- 
ity, Lessing on, xxxii, 203; on 
authority. Mill on, xxv, 238-46; 
on authority, Milton on, iii, 229- 
31, 240-1; IV, 359; on authority, 
Pascal on, xlviii, 445-6, 446-7; 
on authority, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
294 ;_ in authors, criticism of, 
xxvii, 233-4; Bacon on, iii, 44- 
48; Bentham on criticism of 
faults in, xxvii, 257; Browne on 
doubts in, iii, 269; Buddha on 
useless questions of, xlv, 662-7; 
Bunyan on, xv, 77-78, 84, 108-11; 
Bunyan on backsliding in, 156-8; 
Burice on fear in, xxiv, 62; Burns 
on, vi, 146, 214; Carlyle on, xxr, 
35^-3> 382; changes in, iii, i44-5» 



GENERAL INDEX 



373 



xxxiv, 399-402; Cowper on, xxxix, 
310; decline of, y, 287-8, 290; 
determined by accident of birth, 
xxxiv, 293 note; duties of, 315; 
Emerson on, v, 28-9, 153-4, 205, 
446; force in matters of, iii, 14- 
15; freedom of, in U. S., xliii, 
207 (i); freedom of. Vane on, 
130-2; of the future, Emerson on, 
V, 305; of the future, Lessing 
on, xxxii, 214-16; geography in, 
iii, 265 (2) ; Goethe on, xix, 144- 
5; Herbert on, mirth and, xv, 
410-12; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 354-5, 
390-402; Hume on revealed, 
xxxvii, 406-7; hypocrisy in, vi, 
10 1 ; xxvi, 204; individualism 
and, V, 290-1 ; Mill on, xxv, 
49-50* 154; Mill on^ dissenters 
in, 34-5; miracles in, xxxvii, 
403, 406-7, 410, 411-12, 413; 
morality and, xiii, 32; xxv, 
31-2; xxxvii, 423, 428-9; mys- 
teries in, Browne on, iii, 272 
(9)* 273 (10); Newman on teach- 
ing of, xxviii, 37-8; origin of, 
xxxiv, 390; Pascal on, xlviii, 68, 
91 (245), 93 (252), 95 (260), 97 
(268), 98 (273-90), 158 (470), 
184, 192 (574); Pascal on the 
true, 140 (430), 145 (433)» 158 
(468), 163 (487), 164 (489, 491- 
4), 189 (565), 19s (585)* 197, 
200 (605-6), 287-8, 300 (844); 
Penn on, i, 376-84, 365 (311); 
iii, 44; philosophy and, xxxiv, 
109-10; poetry and, xxvii, 113- 
14; xxxix, 329-31; Raleigh on, 
94, 1 1 6-1 7; reason and, xxxii, 212- 
14; xxxvii, 418-22; xlviii, 81 
(226), 84; Rousseau on natural, 
xxxiv, 289, 290-2, 293, 298, 309- 
10; scepticism in, xlviii, 72-7, 82 
(230); science and, iii, 284-6; xxx, 
3; xxxix, 134-5; self-reliance in, 
V, 38-41; of sensuous natures, 
xxviii, 176-7; Shelley on, xxvii, 
348; state, Burke on need of, 
xxiv, 240-7; Taine on, xxxix, 
453-4. 455-6, 457-8; virtue the 
essence of, v, 26; wars of, xiii, 
16; xxxiv, 86; Washington on, 
xliii, 260; Woolman on, i, 181-2; 
Woolman on unity in, 239 

Religion, Unity in. Essay on. 
Bacon's, iii, 11-15 

Religion and Philosophy, reading 
course in, 1, 31-40 

Religions, come from imaginative 
men, v, 184; the four, iii, 290 
note 58;^ national, remarks on, v, 
440; original, allegorical, xxvii, 
348; of Utopia, xxxvi, 237-50; 
represent culture of votaries, v, 
285-7 

Religious Errors, origin of, v, 185 



Religious Exercises, Kempis on, vii, 

231-3 
Religious Instruction, expense of, 

X, 486, 488; Locke on, xxxvii, 

123-6, 142-3 
Religious Liberty, Mill on, xxv, 

210, 226-46, 252-5 
Religious Life, Buddha on the, xlv, 

666, 678-9, 687, 690; Kempis on 

a, vii, 229; Pascal on the, xlviii, 

317 (906) 
Religious Sympathy, Freeman on, 

xxviii, 239 
Religious Teachers, compared with 

poets, xxvii, 349 
Religious Tests, forbidden in U. S., 

xliii, 205 (3); Mill on, xxv, 232-3 
Religious Writings, base tone of, 

V, 90 
Religiousness, of act, speech and 

mind, xlv, 874-5 
Rembrandt, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 293 
Remedies, fable on impossible, xvii, 

39; Pascal on belief in, xlviii, 

287 
Remedy, things without, xlvi, 337 
Remember, by C. G. Rossetti, xiii, 

1228-9 
Remembrance, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

332; rosemary for, xlvi, 171 
Remonstrances, Cicero on, ix, 38-9 
Remorse, Byron on, xviii, 433; 

Shelley on, 335 
Remorse: A Fragment, vi, 52-3 
Remorseful Apology, vi, 510 
Remulus, and Caedicus, xiii, 309; 

death of, 384 
Remus, the Latian, killed by Nisus, 

xiii, 308 
Remus, twin of Romulus, Virgil on, 

xiii, 84-5, 293 
Renaissance, Huxley on the, xxviii, 

225, 227; in Italy, xxvii, 388-90; 

Taine on the, xxxix, 451; works 

of and concerning the, 1, 23-4, 

28-9 
Renan, Ernest, life and works, 

xxxii, 142; Poetry of Celtic 

Races, 143-91 
Rendu, Pere, on glaciers, xxx, 241 
Renfusa, city of New Atlantis, iii, 

161 
Rengger, on cattle in Paraguay, xi, 

86 
Reni, Guido, Raphael's sonnets and, 

xiii, II 38 (see also Guido) 
Renons, the German collector, xxix, 

285 
Rent(s), in agricultural system, x, 

448, 449; building and ground, 

510-11; Burke on, xxiv, 308; of 

coal mines, x, 175-6, 178; consid- 
ered as produce of nature, 305; 

corn, 41-3; corn, in Elizabethan 

England, xxxv, 262; defined, x, 

56; by what determined, 58; ex- 



374 



GENERAL INDEX 



traordinary, 64; of forests, 176-7; 
gross and neat, 233-4; of houses, 
taxes on, 510-18; in kind, Pliny 
on, ix, 372; of land, by what 
determined in general, x, 153-5; 
of land cultivated for food, 155- 
71; 184-5; of land used to pro- 
duce materials, 172-5; 184-5; of 
land, taxes on, 501-8; market 
prices, their effect on, 62; of 
metallic mines, 178-82; money, 
affected by variation of value of 
gold, 40-1; of precious stone 
rnines, 183-4; prices and, rela- 
tions between, 155; prices of 
commodities, as determined by, 
52-3; profits and wages, con- 
founded with, 56-7; progress of 
society in relation to, 216-17, 
274-5; taxes on, 501-8, 510-18; 
taxes on, when best paid, 499 (3) 

Renton, Mr., Note to, vi, 283 

Renty, Sir Oudart, at Poitiers, 
XXXV, 49-50 

Renunciation, Buddha on, xlv, 608; 
Emerson on, v, 2T\ Hindu doc- 
trine of, xlv, 813, 823, 826, 858, 
876; Kempis on, vii, 308 (i); 
Pascal on, xlviii, 89 (240) 

Renunciation, A, by De Vere, xl, 
296 

Renzo Tramaglino (see Tramaglino) 

Reparation, Penn on, i, 351 

Repentance, Calvin on, xxxix, 53; 
Cenci on, xviii, 319; Jesus on, xliv, 
401 (7, 10), 405 (3-4); Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 258 (10); Ra- 
leigh on, xxxix, 85; time for, xv, 
265 

Repetition, Burke on effects of, 
xxiv, 64-5, T2>\ Darwin on ef- 
fects of, xxix, 336; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 20 (48) ; sublimity of, its 
cause, xxiv, 117-20 

Rephan, xliv, 444 (43) 

Replevin, in Massachusetts, xliii, 
75 (32) 

Repose, our foster-nurse of nature, 
xlvi, 274 

Representation, Jefferson on right 
of, xliii, 161; of minorities, Mill 
on, xxv, 165-6; personal. Mill on, 
165-6; principles of, adopted by 
French Revolution, xxiv, 321- 
38; of property, Burke on, 199- 
200 

Representative Government, Mill 
on, xxv, 71-2 

Representatives, Congressional, xliii, 
192-3, 194 (i), 195 (6, 7), 205 
(3), 210-11; qualities needed by, 
V, 192-3 (see also Agents) 

Reproach, independence of, vii, 254 
(2, 3) ; worse than violence, iv, 
208 



Reproduction, period of, change in, 
xi, 197 

Reproductive System, affected by 
conditions of life, xi, 316; sen- 
sitiveness of, 27-8 

Reproofs, in anger, i, 364 (289-92) ; 
Cicero on, ix, 38-9; usefulness of, 
xliii, 100; vain, i, 375 (446-7); 

Reproval, our fear of, vii, 323-4 

Republican Government, on trial in 
America, xliii, 243-4 

Republics, Dry den on, xviii, 7-8; limi- 
tation of authority in, xxv, 204-6; 
Machiavelli on difficulty of con- 
quering, xxxvi, 19; military af- 
fairs of, 43; monarchies com- 
pared with, V, 256 

Reputation, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 
135-7^ 

Reputation, daughter of fortune, iii, 
105 ; the desire for, ii, 256 ^"jz)'; 
Locke on, xxxvii, 44, 83, 122; a 
matter of imagination, xlviii, 35; 
Pascal on desire of, 59 (147); 
Plutarch on desire of, xii, 253; 
as power, xxxiv, 374, 375; Rous- 
seau on love of, 229; Webster on, 
xlvii, 761 (see also Fame) 

Reputations, of great men, beyond 
their acts, v, 191 

Requiem, by Stevenson, xlii, 1261-2 

Requiescat, by Arnold, xlii, 11 75 

Requisition, right of, under Confed- 
eration, xliii, 169; under Consti- 
tution, 203 

Rerir, son of Sigi, xlix, 276-7 

Resemblance of ideas, Hume on, 
xxxvii, 323, 346-7 

Resemblances, analogical, xi, 462-7; 
Browne on, iii, 327; deformity 
and, 48; embryonic, xi, 479-81; 
family, iii, 21; in nature, xi, 472- 
7; Pascal on, xlviii, 51 (133); 
pleasure in finding, xxiv, 18-20 

Resentment, Pascal on, xlviii, 113 
(324); Penn on, i, 356 (182-5), 
363 (270-1) 

Reservation, in speech, Penn on, i, 
401 

Reservations, Papal, xxxvi, 299, 303, 
306 

Reserved Cases (Catholic Church), 
xxxvi, 307 

Residences, Bacon on, iii, 114-17 

Resignation, by Longfellow, xlii, 
1329-31 

Resignation, Burns on, vi, 33 ; Penn 
on, i, 342 (see also Acquiescence) 

Resolution, Buddha on, xlv, 611; 
from despair, iv, 95; Franklin's 
maxim on, i, 83, 84; why honor- 
able, xxxiv, 380; Kempis on, vii, 
231 (2) 

Resolution and Independence, xli, 
674-8 

Resolutions, hasty. Penn on, i, 356-7 



GENERAL INDEX 



375 



Resolve, The, by Brome, xl, 378 

Respect, ceremonious and natural, 
xlviii, 385-6; Dryden on, xviii, 38; 
friendsnip and, ix, 36; an inferior 
degree of astonishment, xxiv, 5 1 ; 
Kant on, xxxii, 331 note 3; Locke 
on want of, xxxvii, 128-31; love 
and, xlviii, 424, 426 

Respectability, Penn on, i, 361-2; 
religion of, xxviii, 312; Stevenson 
on, 310-11; virtue and, 312-13 

Respects, Ceremonies and. Essay 
ON, iii, 131-2 

Respiration, compared with combus- 
tion of a candle, xxx, 170-8; 
Descartes on use of, xxxiv, 44; 
Galen on, xxxviii, 68; in high 
altitudes, xxix, 341; pulse and, 
xxxviii, 68, T2-z 

Rest, Burke on state of, xxiv, 113; 
complete, is death, xlviii, 50 (129); 
Cowper on, xli, 555; after good 
works, iii, 30; Herbert on, xl, 
355-6; labor and, vii, 292 (4); 
xxviii, 325-6; needed by man, iv, 
173; Pascal on complete, xlviii, 50 
(129), 51 (131); second law of 
nature, v, 239, 247; temporal and 
eternal, vii, 312 (2); Tennyson 
on, xlii, 1028-9 

Restitutus, letter to, ix, 312 

Restlessness, Herbert on, xl, 355-6; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 50 (130), 52-5 

Restoration, English, drama of the, 
xviii, 3; Milton on, iv, 5 

Results, Arabian proverb on, xvi, 
36; Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 61; 
Webster on weighing, xlvii, 751; 
Whitman on certainty of, xxxix, 
426-8 

Resurrection, Browne on the, iii, 
313-14; Bunyan on, xv, 233; cele- 
bration of the, 408; Dante on cer- 
tainty of, XX, 316; Jesus on, xliv, 
413 (27-40); Milton on the, iv, 
356; Mohimmed on the, xlv, 900- 
I, 923; Pascal on, xlviii, 80 (^222- 
3); Paul, St., on, xlv, 523 (12- 
55); Sadducees on, xliv, 413 {,2'j- 
36) ; songs of the, xix, 33-5 

Resurrection, The Day of, xlv, 
555-6 

Retail Trade, profits in, why greater 
than in wholesale, x, 119 

Retailing, capital used in, x, 304, 
306; necessity of, 302-3 

Retaliation, by Goldsmith, xli, 517- 
21 

Retaliation, Mohammed on law of, 
xlv, 1013; Shelley on, xviii, 2'j']\ 
Socrates on, ii, 38-9 

Retaliatory Duties, x, 363-5 

Retirement, Goldsmith on, xli, 524; 
Kempis on, vii, 234 (5) 

Retreat, The, xl, 357-8 

Retribution, ^schylus on, viii, 18- 



19, 21-2, 32, 64.5, 73, 84, 87, 88, 
9Zy 97* no, 125-6, 136, 151; Asaph 
on, xliv, 2Z7 (17-20); Bildad on, 
100 (5-21); Buddhist doctrine of, 
xlv, 685-6, 687-90, 691-2, 694-7; 
Christ, the teacher of, xxxii, 209; 
David on, xliv, 153 (12-16), 157 
(5-6), 185 (16, 21), 189 (I, 2), 
190 (9-38), 217 (6-1 1); doctrine 
of, among the Jews, xxxii, 199- 
202; EccLESiASTES on, xliv, 349 
(11-13); Elihu on, 128 (21-30); 
Eliphaz on, 78 (8), 96 (20-35); 
Emerson on, v, 94, 104-5; Frank- 
lin on, i, 80, 94; future need- 
lessness of doctrine, xxxii, 214; 
Hindu doctrine of, xlv, 871-2; 
Jesus on, xliv, 374 (21-6), 375 
(38), 404 (25); Hobbes on legal, 
xxxiv, 424; Job on, xliv, 106 (17- 
33), III (18-25), 114 (i3-23)» 120 
(3); Kempis on, vii, 242-4; More 
on doctrine of, xxxvi, 208, 240-1 ; 
Omar Khayyam on, xli, 984, 986; 
Oresteia deals with subject of, 
viii, 3-4; popular ideas of, v, 89- 
90; Whitman on, xxxix, 426-7; Zo- 
phar on, xliv, 103 (5-29) 

Retz, Cardinal de, miracle related 
by, xxxvii, 408-9; Voltaire on, 
xxxiv, 88 

Reuben, Winthrop on, xliii, 100 

Reveille, The, xlii, 1482-3 

Revelation, Bunyan on, xv, 100, 
153; Emerson on, v, 33, 144-6; 
Franklin on, i, 57, 58; Lessing 
on, xxxii, 195-213; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 288 (818); Rousseau on, 
x'lxiv, 291-312; superior to mo- 
rality, xiii, :i2\ yearning for, xix, 
49 

Revelation, Book of, Paraeus on, iv, 
416 

Revenge, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 
15-16 

Revenge, Burns on, vi, iii; con- 
tempt the best, iii, 334; Epictetus 
on, ii, 169 (143); forgiveness and, 
153 (96); Hobbes on desire of, 
xxxiv, 367, 424; Marcus Aurelius 
on best, ii, 234 (6) ; masters fear 
of death, iii, 10; music and, xli, 
489; Schiller on, xxvi, 465; Shel- 
ley on, xviii, 277; what will not, 
descend to, iv, 268 

Revenge, The, xlii, 1041-6 

Revengefulness, defined by Hobbes, 
xxxiv, 354; language of, 358 

Revenue, capital and, as determin- 
ing industry, x, 275-7; composed 
of wages, profits, and rent, 233; 
duties for, 369, 390; gross and 
neat, 234-40; as measured by 
money, 237-40; public, Burke on, 
xxiv, 375-6; sources of, x, 55-6; 
sources of public, 489-590 



376 



GENERAL INDEX 



Revenue Bills, under Constitution, 

xliii, 195 

Revere, Paui., Ride of, xlii, 1348 

Reverence, Burke on, xxiv, 51; 

Goethe on, xxv, 397-8; Locke on, 

xxxvii, 89; Tennyson on, xlii, 

1033 
Reverie of Poor Susan, xli, 671 
Reversion, Darwin on, xi, 169-70; 
instance of, among pigeons, 41; 
of mongrels and hybrids, 328, 
329; remarks on, 42; tendency to, 
31, 32; tendency to, does not pre- 
vail against selection, 114 
Reviewers, Carlyle on, xxv, 354 
Reviews, Smith on, xxvii, 237 
Reviling, Ecclesiastes on, xliv, 352 

' Revilius, Caninius, xii, 322 

Revision, of writings, Pliny on, ix, 
322 

Revolution, ages of, Emerson on, 
v, 21; Burke on, xxiv, 179, 304-5; 
Franklin on, i, 93 ; Jefferson on 
right of, xliii, 160-1; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 106; reform contrasted 
with, xxiv, 411 

Revolution Society, Burke on the, 
xxiv, 153-6, 215; answer to doc- 
trines of, 164-81, 203-6 

Revolutionists, Burke on, xxiv, 211- 
13. 312, 313 

Revolutions of Heavenly Bodies, 
Dedication of, xxxix, 55-60 

Rewards, as means of association, 
xxv, 90-1; for children, xxxvii, 
39-41, 42, 44-5, 59, 94; Emerson 
on, V, 280, 300; Marcus Aurelius 
on, ii, 2']7 (42) 

Reynaldo, in Hamlet, xlvi, 11 3- 15 

Reynard the Fox, Locke on, xxxvii, 
141 

Reynolds, Sir Joshua, Goldsmith 
on, xli, 518, 521; Hazlitt on, 
xxvii, 293; Sheridan on, xviii, 
106; on taste, xxxix, 282, 305 

Reynolds, General, at Gettysburg, 
xliii, 351, 353, 354; Haskell on, 

354 
Reynolds, Mr., More and, xxxvi, 

130 

Reynolds, Mrs., in Hazlitt's discus- 
sion, xxvii, 286, 289 

Rhadamanthus, Homer on, xxii, 63, 
102; Socrates on, ii, 28; Virgil 
on, xiii, 230 

Rhamnes, death of, xiii, 308 

Rhamnus, and Antony, xii, 373 

Rhampsinitos, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 
59-63 

Rhapsodies, Montaigne on, xxxii, 
32 

Rhea, mother of the gods, ix, 405 
note; Bacchus and, viii, 351; Her- 
cules and, xiii, 266; Jove and, xx, 
61-2 



Rhesus, reference to, xiii, 92 
Rhetoric, Burke on, xxiv, 144; Car- 
lyle on, xxv, 393-6; Descartes on 
study of, xxxiv, 9; Goethe on, 
xix, 28; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 377; 
Locke on study of, xxxvii, 169- 
70, 1 71-2; Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii, 208 (5); Montaigne on study 
of, xxxii, 61-2; oratory contrasted 
with, xxv, 338; Penn on, i, 352 
(137-41), 401 (126); Plutarch on, 
xii, 55; simplicity in, v, 314 
Rhetoricians, Pliny on, ix, 224 
Rhexenor, son of Nausithous, xxii, 

95 ^ 
Rhine, Byron on the, xli, 818-19; 

Caesar's bridge over, xii, 294; Taci- 
tus on the, xxxiii, 95; Thoreau 

on the, xxviii, 420-1 
Rhinoceros, old Arabian idea of the, 

xvi, 261 
Rhoda, the maid, xliv, 456 (13-15); 

St. Peter and, xv, 342 
Rhodius, Apollonius, xxvii, 366 
Rhodon, tutor of Caesarion, xii, 399 
Rhodopis, Herodotus on, xxxiii, 68-9 
Rhoetus, in the ^neid, xiii, 309, 

340 
Rhone, sediment of the, xxxviii, 

422-3 
Rhorty's Battery, at Gettysburg, 

xliii, 359, 373, 406 
Rhyme, Dryden on, xiii, 58; Hugo 

on, xxxix, 392; Milton on, iv, 

89; Montaigne on, xxxii, 63; 

Pope on advantages of, xl, 417; 

Sidney on, xxvii, 34; Swift on, 

120; Whitman on, xxxix, 415 
Rhymer, on Shakespeare, xxxix, 

223, 226 
Rhythm, Poe on, xxviii, 390; Shel- 
ley on, xxvii, 350; Sidney on, 53; 

universal inclination to, iii, 338 
Ribeira Grande, Darwin on, xxix, 

12-13 
Ribemont, Eustace, at Poitiers, 

XXXV, 37-9, 49 
Ricardo, David, Emerson on, v, 

259; as member of Parliament, 

xxv, 67; Mill and, 23, 39-40, 67 
Ricardo, Duke, in Cardenio's story, 

xiv, 214-15 
Riccaut, in Minna von Barnhelm, 

XX vi, 334-8 
Ricci, Federigo de*, xxxi, 447, 449* 

50^ 
Riccio, Pier Francesco, xxxi, 35$- 

60, 361-2, 370, 398, 402-3 
Rice, cultivation of, x, 169-70 
Rice ap Howell, in Edward II, 

xlvi, 59, 60, 61-3 
Rice, Hugh ap, xxxv, 402 
Rich, Lord, and More, xxxvi, 131-5 
Richard I, accusations of God, v, 

286 



GENERAL INDEX 



377 



Richard II, Chaucer and, xxxix, 
171; Raleigh on, 76; in Tyler's 
Rebellion, xxxv, 64-5, 67-8, 69-70, 
71-5, 77-82 

Richard III, Raleigh on, xxxix, 79- 
80; reference to, xl, 470 

Richard the Third, stage presenta- 
tion of, xxvii, 323-4 

Richard, Archbishop of Canterbury, 
xxxv, 270 

Richard of St. Victor, xx, 330 note 
28 

Richard of the Lea, the knight in 
RoBYN HoDE, xl, 133-41, 142-8, 
164-6, 170-1, 172-5, 176-7, 183, 
185-6 

Richardson, Gabriel, Epitaph for, 
vi, 549 

Richardson, Samuel, Franklin on 
style of, i, 24; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 
289 

Richelet, Hugo on, xxxix, 384 

Richelieu, Burke on, xxiv, 196; 
Joseph the Capuchin and, xxxix, 
374; Louis XlII and, xxiv, 349; 
in Mantua contest, xxi, 81, 455, 
486-7 

Riches, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 92-5 

Riches, advantage of, remains to 
maker, v, 50; Burns on, vi, 51, 
91, 213, 344-5; Cicero on, ix, 37; 
compensation of, v, 92; Confucius 
on, xliv, 6 (15); Curius, Man- 
lius, on, ix, 66; death and, xvi, 
317-18, 327, 335-6; Dekker on, xl, 
327; Ecclesiastes on, xliv, 345 
(10-14), 346 (1-2), 351 (11); Em- 
erson on tru^, V, 226; Epictetus 
on true, ii, 178 (182); friendship 
and, ix, 27; good and evil, xlvii, 
765; grow in Hell, iv, 107; hap- 
piness and, i, 360, 361; xix, 372; 
heirs to, v, 51-2; Herbert on, xv, 
394; why honorable, xxxiv, 380; 
independence of, v, 57; Jesus on, 
xliv, 374 (24), 393 (16-21), 408 
(24-s) ; Job on, xliv, 122 (24-5, 
28) ; Kempis on, vii, 284 (4) ; loss 
of, no misfortune, ii, 126 (25); 
Massinger on, xlvii, 874; Milton 
on, iv, 3^6-7', Morris on, xlii, 
1243; Nashe on, xl, 265; Pascal 
on property of, xlviii, no (310); 
Penn on pursuit of, i, 408-9; poet- 
ical idea of, v, 236-7; Pope on, 
xl, 446, 448; as power, xxxiv, 
374; Psalm on folly of trust in, 
xliv, 206-7; Raleigh on, xxxix, 95, 
loi; Raleigh on pursuit of, 95, 
97-8; results of competition of, 
xxxiv, ^85; Stoic dictum of, ix, 
138; Thoreau's idea of, xxviii, 
406; Utopian opinion of, xxxvi, 
205-6, 212; virtue and, i, 359 
<2i9); Walton on, xv, 333; Web- 
ster on, xlvii, 730; Woodnot on, ' 



XV, 392; Woolman on, i, 204 note, 
220, 243 (see also Wealth) 

Richmond, Duke of, and George 
Herbert, xv, 390 

RiDDELL, Captain, Lines to, vi, 347 

RiDDEi^L, Captain, Rhyming Reply 
TO, vi, 348 

Riddell, Maria, Epigram on, vi, 
510 

Riddell, Mrs., On Birthday of, vi, 
507 

Riddell, Robert, Lines to Memory 
OF, vi, 550 

Riddell, Robert, Sonnet on, vi, 
521 

Riddell, Walter, Epitaph for, vi, 
517 

Riddell, Mrs. Walter, On the 
Carriage of, vi, 517 

Ridiculous, Fielding on the, xxxix, 
187-9 

Riding, Locke on, xxxvii, 183, 184 

Ridolfi, Niccolo, xxxi, 47 note 2 

Riemer, on Goethe, v, 199 

Rigby, Dr., xxxviii, 235, 259, 261 

Right, Augustine, St., on wrong 
and, vii, 40-1; Confucius on 
seeing and doing, xliv, 9 (24); 
disputes on wrong and, xxxiv, 
389; "doth its own likeness 
breed," viii, 32; Emerson on, v, 
66, 293; Franklin's early view of, 
i» 57-8; "gives way to delight," 
viii, 304; Kant on tests of, xxxii, 
352-5; law and, xxxiv, 407; 
"makes room where weapons 
want," xlvi, 54; Manzoni on, 
xxi, 20; James Mill on, xxv, 
37; Pope on, xl, 419-25; for 
right's sake, xlv, 809; Rousseau 
on, xxxiv, 276; success as the 
measure of, ix, 291; of the sword, 
Pascal on, xlviii, 311 (878) 

Right Reason, Bentham on phrase, 
xxv, 46 

Right-Timing, Penn on, i, 354-5 

Righteousness, ^schylus on, viii, 
32; Augustine, St., on, vii, 40-1; 
Burns on rigid, vi, 192; Confucius 
on, xliv, 54 (17), 56 (2); David 
on, 185 (15-22), 190, 191-2, 218 
(lo-ii); Ecclesiastes on, 348 (15- 
16), 348 (20), 349 (12, 14), 350 
(2); Elihu on, 129 (2-8), 130 
(6-7); Eliphaz on, 107 (3); of 
God, Elihu on, 130 (2-7); Justice, 
compared with, xxxiv, 421; Pascal 
on hunger after, xlviii, 96 (264); 
"the path of," xl, 78; the Psalm- 
ist on, xliv, 293 (4-9) ; reward of, 
266 (12-15); reward of desire for, 
xlv, 829-30; wickedness, contrasted 
with, xliv, 147, 236-8, 241 (10); 
Woolman on, i, 197 

Rights, Burke on, of man, xxiv, 
207-11; Hobbes on, natural, xxxiv. 



378 



GENERAL INDEX 



407-8; Jefferson on, xliii, 160; of 

persons and of property, v, 250- 

3; renunciation and transference 

of, xxxiv, 408-10; social, 408-10, 

425-6 
Rights of Woman, The, vi, 474 
Rigogli, Giovanni, xxxi, 56 
Rigor, pushed too far, xxvi, 432 
Rigs o' Barley, vi, 47-8 
Rimini, Francesca da, xx, 24-5; 

Hugo on, xxxix, 367 
Rimini, Malatestino da, xx, 113 note 

5; Cassero and, 118 note 8 
Rimmon, the god, iv, 102 
Rimsky-Korsakoff, influence of 

Arabian Nights on, xvi, 4 
Rinaldo, Dante on, xx, 363 note 4; 

Spenser on, xxxix, 65 
Rinaldo d'Este, Dryden on, xiii, 34 
Ring and the Book, Dedication of, 

xlii, ii54;5 
Ringrave, Captain, xxxviii, 19 
Ringrave, Count, death of, xxxviii, 

54 
Rinkart, Martin, hymn by, xlv, 571 
Rio Grande River, xliii, 313, 315 
Rio Negro, Darwin on, xxix, 74-5 
Rio Sauce, Darwin on the, xxix, 

118-19 
Riolan, John, on the heart, xxxviii, 

86 
Riolanus, on arteries, xxxviii, ^2 
Riou, reference to, xli, 800 
Ripamonti, on plague of Milan, 

xxi, 521 
Ripheus, in Dante*s Paradise, xx, 

373-4; death of, xiii, 117-8; in 

sack of Troy, 114-16 
Ripley, George, xlvii, 561 note 
Riquet, and the Languedoc canal, 

X, 477 
Risks, human contempt of, x, 114- 

15; Penn on, i, 362 
Rites, Bacon on religious, iii, 48; 

Luther on religious, xxxvi, 392-7; 

Penn on religious, i, 380-1 (507), 

405 (175) 
Ritter, Karl, Geikie on, xxx, 339 
Rituals, without reverence, xliv, 12 

Rivalry, friendship and, ix, 20-21; 

fruits of, xxvi, 91; Pliny on, 

happy, ix, 248 
River of Life, by Campbell, xli, 

794-5 
Rivers, second Earl of, xxxix, lo- 

II, 13; death of, 79, 80 
Rivers, John, xxxiii, 238 
Rivers, Pascal on, xlviii, 13 (17) 
Riviere, Mercier de la, x, 464 
RizPAH, by Tennyson, xlii, 1046- 

1051 
Rizzio, murder of, xxxix, 377 
Roads, expence of maintaining, x, 

474'7» Smith on good, 156-7 



Roads, Rough, Epigram on, vi, 

249 
Roannez, Charlotte Gouffier de, 

xlviii, 352 note i; letters to, 352- 

65 
Roannez, M. de, on reason, xlviii, 

98 (276) 
Roanoak, colony of, xxxiii, 234, 

235, 266-7 
Rob Morris, Auld, vi, 473 
Robb, D. C, translator of Pasteur, 

xxxviii, 283 
Robbers, in Dante's Hell, xx, 47, 

54, 102-3; rich and poor, xlv, 

689-90 
Robert, of Normandy, Henry I and, 

xxxix, 75 
Robert, king of Sicily, Dante on, 

XX, 319 note II, 321 note 2; 

poets and, xxvii, 43 
Robert of Lincoln, xlii, 1264-6 
Roberton, Mr., on puerperal fever, 

xxxviii, 242-3, 257-8 
Roberts, inventor of the mule, v, 

411 
Robertson, F. W., translator of 

Lessing, xxxii, 193 
Robertson, Rev. John, Burns on, 

vi, 173, 254 
Robertson, Joseph, of "London Re^ 

view, XXV, 134; Wordsworth on, 

V, 483 
Robin, parable of the, xv, 208 
Robin, M. Ch., xxxviii, 356-61 
Robin Gray, Auld, xli, 570-1 
Robin Hood, Emerson on character 

of, V, 362; Maid Marian and, xli, 

898 (see also Robyn Hode) 
Robin the Ostler, in Faustus, xix, 

226-9 
Robin-Redbreast, Cali* for the, xl, 

331 
Robin Shure in Hairst, vi, 342 

Robinson, Mr. Alfred, marriage of, 

xxiii, 247-51; (in 1859), 406 
Robinson, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

351 

Robinson, Henry Crabbe, and story 
of The Fisherman, xvii, 89 note 

Robinson, Ralph, translator of Uto- 
pia, xxxvi, 2 

Robyn Hode, in Robyn Hode, his 
friends and customs, xl, 130-3; 
the knight and, 134-40, 148, 164- 
6, 1 70-1; welcomes Little John, 
153; with the Sheriff, 155-7; and 
the monk, 157, 159-63; at archery 
contest, 167-70, in knight's castle, 
1 70-1; returns to greenwood, 172; 
rescues knight, 173-5; the king 
and, 176-85; at court, 186: re- 
turns to greenwood, 187-8; death, 
188-9 

Robyn Hode, A Gest of, xl, 130-89 

Rochambeau, Count de, xliii, 180 



GENERAL INDEX 



379 



Roche-sur-Yon, at Metz, xxxviii, 
24, 25, 26; Navarre and, 49-50 

Rochefoucauld, Duke de, Burke on, 
xxiv, 262-3, 440; Voltaire on 
Maxims of, xxxiv, 103 

Rochester, Earl of, On Charles II, 
xl, 392; Hugo on, xxxix, 399-400; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 145-7 

Rockingham, Lord, Burns on, vi, 
55; Burke and, xxiv, 5 

Rocks, Geikie on, xxx, 343, 352-3; 
Lyell on volcanic, xxxvii, 417-18; 
metamorphic, xxx, 349-50; sedi- 
mentary, 344-5 » 354:5 ; stratified 
and crystalline, xxxviii, 415-16 

Rocks Wandering, the, xxii, 170-1 

Roc's Egg, Aladdin and the, xvi, 
440-1; story of the, 256-7, 287-8 

Roddick, William, Epitaph on, vi, 
520 

Roderigo, in Duchess of Malfi, 
xlvii, 725, 744, 809, 8x2, 813, 815 

Roderigo, counsellor of Philip, xix, 
285 

Rodney, Emerson on character of, 
V, 362 

Rodney's Victory, Lines on, vi, 
489 

Rodolph, Emperor, Dante on, xx, 
170 and note 12, 174-5 

Rodrigo, Don, in I Promessi Sposi, 
bravoes of, xxi, 15; relations with 
Abbondio, 21; Lucia and, 39; 
palace and friends of, 74-85; con- 
ference with Cristoforo, 86-90; 
plans of vengeance, 106-8; rallied 
by Attilio, 108-9; plans to carry 
off Lucia, 109-11 ; learns failure of 
plans, 185-7; advises with Attilio, 
188-90; plans to have Renzo ban- 
ished, 196-7; learns Lucia's where- 
abouts, 304-5; determines to seek 
aid of the Unnamed, 305-6, 327- 
32; conference with Unnamed, 
333-6; goes to Milan, 423-4; takes 
the plague, 557-60; taken to the 
Lazzaretto, 561-3; in the Lazza- 
retto, 612-13; death of, 654 

Roebuck, John Arthur, Mill on, xxv, 
57, 81, 82, 83, 85, 99-100; in 
Parliament, 126-7; ii^ Westminster 
Review, 66 

Roger, in She Stoops to Conquer, 
xviii, 214-15 

Roger, in Shoemaker's Holiday 
(see Hodge) 

Roger of Doncaster, xl, 188 

Rogers, B. B., translator of Aris- 
tophanes, viii, I 

Rogers, Mr., first husband of Miss 
Read, i, 51-2, 69 

Rogers, Samuel, poems by, xli, 596-7 

Rohan, M. de, xxxviii, 13, 15, 19 

Roland, in Song of Roland, with 
Charlemagne at Cordres, xlix, 
100, 103; advises against Marsil, 



103-4; offers to go to Marsil, 105; 
quarrel with Ganelon, 106-7, 108; 
Ganelon on, no- 11,^ 116; plot 
against, iii, 11 6- 19; in return to 
France, 121; given rear guard, 
122-5; prodigies preceding death 
of, 147-8; before battle of Ron- 
cesvalles, 132, 133, 134-6, 137-8; 
in the battle, 139, 142, 143-4, 145, 
147, 150, 152, 153-4. 155-6, 158, 
159, 160; the horn of, 161-4, 181, 
197; renews fight, 166-7, 168-9; 
with Oliver, 170-2; with Walter, 
172-3; last fight, 173-7; with Arch- 
bishop Turpin, 177-80; his death, 
180-4; body of, found by Charle- 
magne, 1 9 1-4; his tomb, 198; 
Renan on, xxxii, 165 (see also 
Orlando) 

Roland, Song of, xlix, 97-208; re- 
marks on, 96; 1, 22 

Roland de Vaux of Tryermaine, 
xli, 737-8, 740 

Roman Catholic Church, Augustine, 
St., on the, vii, 86, 87; Bacon on, 
iii, 137; Browne on, 266 (3), 268 
(5); Calvin on, xxxix, 34-5, 38- 
41, 44-6; cardinals of, xxxvi, 290- 
i; Dante on, xx, 213, 378-9; in 
England, xxxv, 264-8, 279, 280; 
Hobbes on revolt from, xxxiv, 
401-2; Hume on ceremonies of, 
xxxvii, 346-7; Knox on the, xxxix, 
61; liberty of the press under, iii, 
206-8; Luther on, xxxvi, 277-S3; 
Machiavelli on temporal power of, 
40-2; Mill on, xxv, 241-2; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 302 (849, 850), 305 
(857-62), 308 (867), 309 (869-70), 
311 (878, 881), 312 (885), 313 
(889), 314 (890, 896), 316 (905), 
319-20, 352-3. 354; services in, 
xxxv, 278; Shelley on, in Italy, 
xviii, 277-8 (see also Papacy) 

Roman (Classics, Sainte-Beuve on, 
xxxii, 127 

Roman Empire, Bacon on fall of, 
iii, 146; decline of, xxxviii, 412; 
Hugo on fall of, xxxix, 361-2; 
liberty of press in, iii, 205-6; life 
in early (see Pliny, Letters) ; lit- 
erary works of, 1, 20, 27; Luther 
on, xxxvi, 344; Machiavelli on 
cause of overthrow of, 50; power 
of the soldiery in, 65-6 

Roman Names, Plutarch on, xii, 
161-2 

Roman Provinces, ix, 416 note 2 

Roman Time, ix, 243 note 4 

Romance and Chronicle, xxxv 

Romance-poetry, Arnold on the, 
xxviii, 76-7 

Romances, Cervantes on, xiv, 498% 
502, 506-7, 512-14; defended by 
Don Quixote, 514-21; Fielding on, 
xxxix, 184-90; Whitman on, 424 



380 



GENERAL INDEX 



Romanianus^ friend of Augustine, 
vii, 99 

Romano, Giulio, xxxi, 35 note 3, 57, 
60, 62, 85-6 

Romano, Ezzolino di, xx, 53 note 8 

Romans, Caxton on the, xxxix, 16; 
eating customs of the, xxxv, 303; 
xxxvii, 18-19; education among 
the, 52 note; Emerson on the, v, 
52; houses and public buildings of 
early, 55; poetry among the, xxvii, 
lo-ii; swimming among, xxxvii, 
14; Taine on the, xxxix, 444, 
448 

Romantic Literature, Hugo on, xxxix, 
363 

Romantic Movement, Hugo in, xxxix, 
354 note; Wordsworth in, 281 note 

Romanus, the martyr, xv, 268 

Romanus, Voconius, Pliny on, ix, 
228-9, 375-6; Pliny's letters to, 
196, 221, 297, 334, 352 

Rome, agrarian law of, x, 415; allies 
of, iii, 82; America and, ix, 5; 
assirnilation of other nations by, 
xxviii, 257; Bacon on, v,^ 376; 
Bacon on triumphs of, iii, 84; 
bribery in, xii, 164-5; burning 
of, Chaucer on, xl, 49; custom 
of candidates in early, xii, 164; 
Carthage and, Virgil on, xiii, 178- 
9; Cicero on success of, iii, 46-7; 
civil war in, 40; xii, 303-5, 320; 
colonies of, x, 416; corn impor- 
tations in, 160; England compared 
with, xxxiv, 86-7; of Evander's 
time, xiii, 283-4; foreign policy 
of, xxxvi, 19; freedom of, due to 
her arms, 43; freedom of press 
in, iii, 204-5; galleys of, xxxv, 376 
note; the Germans and, xxxiii, 
1 16-17; Goethe and Byron on, 
xxxii, 412 note; greatness of, 
prophesied, iii, 95; conquest of 
Greeco, xxxvi, 11,^ 12, 13, 19; 
Grecian art in, xxxii, 251; history 
of, Carlyle on, xxv, 381-2; history 
of, Dante on, xx, 308-10; history 
of, Virgil on, xiii, 293-6; interest 
in, X, 99-100; kings of, Virgil on, 
xiii, 239; Luther on, xxxvi, 313; 
Marlowe on, xix, 223-4; rnedicine 
in, xxxv, 252; Milton on, iv, 400- 
3; money in, x, 31, 33, 34, 45.; 
More on standing armies of, xxxvi, 
154; naturalization policy of, iii, 
80; penology in, xxxvi, 160; pi- 
geons in ancient, xi, 43; poetry of, 
Shelley on, xxvii, 360-1 ; Praetorian 
emperors of, xxxvi, 23; present 
level of, XXX, 366; provincial pol- 
icy of, xxxvi, 12, 18, 77; Raleigh 
on, xxxix, 74; religion and phi- 
losophy of, 456; religious matters 
in early, xii, 176-7; religious tol- 
eration in, xxxiv, 398; xxxvii. 



416; republic of, Machiavelli on, 
xxv, 385; Republican, works deal- 
ing with, 1, 19-20, 26; sack of, by 
Imperialists, xxxi, 71-83; seditions 
in early, xii, 155-7, 162-3; See of 
(see Papacy) ; selection known in, 
xi, 48; Shelley on, xii, 891; value 
of silver in, x, 189-90; slavery in 
early, xii, 176; study of language 
in, xxxvii, 156, 174; Taine on, 
xxxix, 448; turdi cultivated in, x, 
195; of Virgil's time, Dryden on, 
xiii, 16-17; Volscian Wars of, xii, 
158-9, 177-88 

Romeo, steward of Raymond Ber- 
enger, xx, 311 note 26 

Romeo and Juliet, Lamb on, xxvii, 
316; Ruskin on, xxviii, 142 

Romilly, Sir Samuel, apprentice bill 
of, V, 408; on buying seat in Par- 
liament, 378 note; on chancery, 
378; on English laws, 360; his 
love for his wife, 384; Mill and, 
xxv, 70; on public speaking, v, 

373 
Romilly, Edward, xxv, 126 
Romilly, John, xxv, 126 
Romoaldo, St., xx, 380 note 5 
Romoli, Vincenzio, xxxi, 133, 134, 

135, 168, 170, 176 
Romulus, the asylum of, xiii, 283; 
Dryden on, 18; Machiavelli on, 
xxxvi, 20-1, 22; ordered Romans 
to live in arms, iii, 81; parentage 
of, XX, 320 note 16; prophecy of, 
xiii, 84-5; suckled by Wolf, 293; 
Virgil on, 237; Waller on, xxxiv, 
149 
Ronalds of the Bennals, The, vi, 

26-8 
Roncesvalles, battle of, xlix, 96, 133- 

84 
Roncesvaux (see Roncesvalles) 
Ronsard, on the ^neid, xiii, 45, 
46; Montaigne on, xxxii, 64; 
Taine on, xxxix, 452 
Roosevelt, Theodore, Convention 

WITH Panama, xliii, 490-1 
Roper, William, son-in-law of More, 
xxxvi, 92, 93; Life of More, 93- 
141 
Ropes, Henry, at Gettysburg, xliii, 

390-1 
Rosa, Vincent de la, in the goat- 
herd's story, xiv, 526-8 
Rosabelle, xii, 766-7 
Rosalind's Madrigal, xl, 218 
Rosaline, by Lodge, xl, 219 
Rosas, General, xxix, 78, 82, 84-5, 

115-16, 154 
Rosaura, in Life a Dream, arrival 
in Poland, xxvi, 5-10; with Segis- 
mund, 11-15; with Clotaldo, 15- 
18; at palace, with Segismund, 
37-8; reason of coming to Poland, 
61; returns to tower, with Segis* 



GENERAL INDEX 



381 



mund, 61-2; reunited with As- 
tolfo, dy 
Roscius, case of, xii, 22^ 
Roscommon, Lord, Silenus of, xiii, 
59; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 150; 

Wordsworth on, xxxix, 347 
Rose, in Shoemaker's Holiday (see 

Oateley) 
Rose, A White, xlii, 1246 
Rose, The Red, Red, vi, 514 
Rose, Aquila, i, 23; elegy on, 28; 

son of, 66 
Rose Aylmer, xli, 922 
Rose-Bud, a, by My Early Walk, 

vi, 302 
Rose-Red and Snow-White, xvii, 

226 
Rosegli, Mariano, xxxi, 442 
Rosemary, flower of remembrance, 

xli, 494; xlyi, 171 
Rosencrantz, in Hamlet, xlvi, 116- 
i7» ^23-7, 131, i33-4» 140, 141, 

147-8, 150, 159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 

165, 173, 189, 198 
Roses, ^ Harrison on, xxxv, 255; 

Massinger on, xlvii, 824 
Roses in the Bosom of Castara, 

xl, 257-8 
Roses, Wars of the, Raleigh on, 

xxxix, 83 
RosLiN Inn, Epigram at, vi, 276 
Ross, in Macbeth, reports victory 

to Duncan, xlvi, 307-8; messenger 

to Macbeth, 311; and the old man, 

331; with Macduff, 332; at the 

banquet, 340, 341, 342, 344; with 

Lady Macduff, 352-3; at English 

Court, 360-2; with Siward, 374 
Ross, Alexander, Wooed and Mar- 
ried, xli, 580-1 
Ross, Captain, at Keeling Island, 

xxix, 477, 482 
Rosselmann, the priest in Wilhelm 

Tell, at Rootli league, xxvi, 405- 

15; before Gessler*s cap, 424; with 

Tell at Altdorf, 426-35; reports 

murder of emperor, 463 
Rossetti, ^ Christina Georgina, poems 

by, xlii, 1228-30 
Rossetti, Dante Gabriel, poems by, 

xlii, 1196-1228 
Rossi, Girolamo de% xxxi, 259 note 

I, 312, 350-1^ 
Rosso, II, xxxi, 48 note i, 56, 204- 

5, 314 and note, 338 
Rotund, the, in building, xxiv, 65-6 

and note 
Rouen, capture of, xxxviii, 49; 

Smith on, x, 276 
Rough Roads, Epigram on, vi, 249 
Roughness, of manners, xxxvii, 129; 

more sublime than smoothness, 

xxiv, 64; why not beautiful, 127 
Roumania, Freeman on, xxviii, 274-6 
Round Table, the, xxxv, 142; why 

founded, 168; knights of the, xiv. 



100; Renan on the, xxxii, 164; 
Tennyson on the, xlii, 1025; seen 
at Winchester, xxxix, 22 
Round Top, at Gettysburg, xliii, 354, 

357 
Round Tower at Jhansi, xlii, 1229- 

30 

Rous, Sir Francis, xxv, 386 

Rousseau, Jean Jacques, his princi- 
ples of composition, xxiv, 319; 
remarks on Confessions of, xxxi, 
I ; editor's remarks on Discourse 
of, 1, 35; Emerson on, v, 275; 
Hume and, xxvii, 214; Hazlitt 
on, 294; Hobbes and, xxxiv, 318; 
On Inequality, 166-234; life aind 
works, 164-5; Mill on work of, 
xxv, 250-1; Savoyard Vicar, xxxiv. 
235-315; Sainte-Beuve on Savo- 
yard Vicar of, xxxii, 128; Steven- 
son on, xxviii, 299-300 

Roux, Maitre, xxxi, 48 note i, 56 

Rover, The, by Scott, xli, 761 

Rovere, Francesco Maria della, xxxi, 
76 note I 

Rowan Tree, The, xli, 577-8 

Rowe, Nicholas, editor of Shake- 
speare, xxxix, 246, 256; Johnson 
on, 244; on Shakespeare, 241 

Rowlands, Richard, Our Blessed 
Lady's Lullaby, xl, 261-5 

Rowley, in School fOR Scandal, 
with Sir Peter, xviii, 123-5; with 
Sir Oliver, 135-6; plans to try 
Charles and Joseph Surface, 138- 
9; with Charles Surface, 159-60; 
with Sir Oliver, 160-1; in visit to 
Joseph Surface, 175-6; announces 
arrival of Sir Oliver, 178; with 
Sir Peter after scandal, 184-6; at 
Joseph Surface's, 189-93 

Roxalana, Solyman's wife, iii, 53 

Roxanes, and Themistocles, xii, 31 

Roy, M. le, i, 155 

Royal George, Loss of the, xli, 546 

Royal Society of England, Franklin 
and, i, 15^, 155-6 

Royalty, Calvin on true, xxxix, 32 

Roye, Lord, xxxv, 58 

Royer-Collard, Remusat on, xxxii, 
130 

Rozinante, horse of Don Quixote, 
dialogue with Babieca, xiv, 17-18; 
Don Quixote on, 228; the mares 
and, 119-20; named, 23, 76; son- 
net on, 541 

Ruaeus, commentator of Virgil, xiii, 
44, 45, 52, 58-9 

Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam, xH, 
970-88 

Rubens, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 293 ; Hugo 
on, xxxix, 366, 370 

Rubicant, the demon, xx, 90, 92 

Rubicon, passage of the, xii, 302-3 

Rucellai, Cosimo, xxvii, 412 

Rucellai, Luigi, xxxi, 150 



382 



GENERAL INDEX 



Rudely Thou Wrongest My 
Heart's Desire, xl, 256 

Rudeness, grandeur and, xxiv, 68 

Rudenz, Ulrich of, in Wilhelm 
Tell, with Attinghausen, xxvi, 
394-9; in love with Bertha, 399- 
400; with Bertha in the forest, 
419-23; with Gessler in Altdorf, 
428; defies Gessler, 432-3; joins 
the League, 447-50; takes Sarnen 
keep, 461; recovers Bertha, 461- 
2; in final scene, 474 

Rudeyneh, xvi, 340 note 

Rudimentary Organs, xi, 490-6; in 
classification, 454; highly variable, 
160 

!i<uffo, John, Cervantes on, xiv, 57 

Rufinus, letter to, ix, 343 

Rufus, C. Musonius, ii, 116, 118 
(5) and note 

Rufus, Calvisius, letter to, ix, 257 

Rufus, Caninius, letter to, ix, 246 

Rufus, Corellius, Pliny on, ix, 206-8 

Rufus, Curtius, story of ghost and, 
ix, 327 

Rufus, Satrius, in Certus's case, ix, 
358 

Rufus, Verginius, Pliny on, ix, 221- 
3» 296 

Rugby Chapel, xlii, 1 176-81 

Ruggieri, Archbishop, xx, 138 note i 

Rugians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 
121 

Ruin, To, by Burns, vi, 203-4 

Ruined Farmer, In the Character 
OF A, vi, 22-3 

RuissEAUX, Robert, Elegy on the 
Death of, vi, 99 

Rukh's Egg, story of the, xvi, 256- 
7, 287-8; Aladdin and, 440-1 

Rule, Britannia, xl, 453 

Rulers, Bacon on, iii, 50-55; Con- 
fucius's advice to, xliv, 5 (5), 7 
(i, 3). 8 (19, 20, 21), 40 (9), 41 
(17, 19), 42 (i, 2), 43 (3, 6), 44 
(13, 15), 45 (17), 51 (44). 52 (4)» 
53 (10), 69 (2); Epictetus to, ii, 
128 (34); Franklin on, i, 131; 
partisanship of, iii, 39; reverence 
for, 39 (see also Princes)^ 

Rules, for children, xxxvii, 45-6; 
laying down, for others, ii, 397 
(29) 

Rum, Indians and, 1, 121; Woolman 
on selling, 268-9 

Ruminants, and pachyderms, xi, 378 

Rumor, .^schylus on, viii, 15; Bacon 
on, iii, 147-9; false, a sign of se- 
dition, 38; in Milton's Chaos, iv, 
135; Raleigh on, xxxix, 70; Virgil 
on, xiii, 162-3 

KuMPELSTiLTSKiN, story of, xvii, 164 

Ruodi, in Wilhelm Tell, xxvi, 371- 
6, 460, 462, 463 

Rupilius, Publius, made consul by 
Scipio, ix, 33 



Rush, Richard, correspondence with 

Bagot, xliii, 283-5 
Ruskin, John, Greenough and, v, 

329; lite and works of, xxviii, 94; 

Sesame and Lilies, 95-168 
Russel, the fox, xl, 48 
Russell, first Baron, xxiv, 422-5 
Russell, Lord John, pluck of, v, 380 
Russell, Rev, John, Burns on, vi, 

100, 107, 171, 174, 372 
Russell, Jonathan, xliii, 273 
Russell, Mr., in Two Years Before 

THE Mast, xxiii, 99, 104, 148, 

256-7 
Russell, W. Clark, on Dana's work, 

xxiii, 4 
Russia, the bureaucracy of, xxv, 

321-2; monks in, iii, 104; Treaty 

with United States, xliii, 459- 

63 
Rusticity, Burns on, vi, 260; Locke 

on, xxxvii, 76 
Rusticucci, Giacopo, xx, 68 and note 

3; in Hell, 27-8 
Rusticus, teacher of Marcus Aure- 

lius, ii, 194 (7), 199 
Rusticus Arulenus, his death, ix, 196 

note, 198 note; wife of, 274 note 
Rustum, reference to, xli, 972 
Ruth, Bunyan on, xv, 212; in 

Dante's Paradise, xx, 420 note 2; 

Keats on, xli, 901; Milton on, iv, 

81 
Ruth: or the Influences of Na- 
ture, xli, 622-9 
Rutherford, Milton on, iv, 83 
Riitimeyer, on cattle, xi, 36 
Ruysum, in Egmont, xix, 248-53 
Rymer, Dryden on, xxxix, 162 
Saadi, on the ugly schoolmaster, v, 

316 
Saavedra, the captive, xiv, 413 (see 

Cervantes) 
Sabacos, king of Egypt, xxxiii, 70-1, 

78 
Sabaeans, Mohammed on, xiv, 1016 
Sabbath, Emerson on the, v, 35, 42; 

Jesus on the, xliv, 372 (i-ii),397 

(14-16), 398 (1-6); Pascal on the, 

xlviii, 202 
Sabbath Laws, Mill on, xxv, 298-9 
Sabellius, Dante on, xx, 344 note 21 
Sabinian, and heathen antiquities, 

iii, 144 
Sabinianus, letters to, ix, 361, 363 
Sabines, rape of the, alluded to, xiii, 

293 
Sabinus, Statius, letter to, ix, 264 
Sable, Marchioness de, letter to, 

xlviii, 347 
Sabrina, in Comus, iv, 68-71 
Sachems, Indian, xliii, 151 
Sacheverell, Henry, xxvii, 168 
Saci, M. de, conversation with Pas« 

cal, xlviii, 392 
Sackville, Lord, Burns on, vi, 55 



GENERAL INDEX 



383 



Sacrament, of the Altar, Kempis on, 

vii, 349-79 ^ , 
Sacraments, Quakers on the, xxxiv, 

67 
Sacred Poetry, Sidney on, xxvii, 14 
Sacred Writings, xliv, xlv 
Sacrifices, Confucius on, xliv, 10 
(12), II (17); Hindu doctrine of, 
xlv, 814, 819-20, 874; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 338 
Sacrilege, Dr. Donne on, xv, 354 
Sadducees, xliv, 413 (27-40), 483 
(8), 439 (17); Hobbes on the, 
xxxiv, 371 
Sadness, connection of, with beauty, 

xxviii, 394 
Saga and Epic, xlix 
Sagacity, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 180, 193 
Sagas, Emerson on the, v, 356-7 
Sages, in the vEneid, xiii, 417-18 
Saibah, xlv, 1019 note 
Sailing, Franklin on, i, 164 
Sailors, Dana on life of, xxiil, 
373-4; duties of, 19-21; how to 
improve their condition, 374-90; 
Woolman on hardships and de- 
pravity of, i, 305-8, 315 
Sailor Songs, Dana on, xxiii, 270-1 
St. Agnes, The Eve of, xli, 907-17 
St. Andre, Louis of, xxxviii, 21 
St. Andrea, Giacomo da, xx, 58 

note 4 
St. Aubin, Capt., xxxviii, 48 
St. Augustine (see Augustine) 
St. Augustine, Drake at, xxxiii, 264- 

5, 267 
St. Bartholomew, massacre of. Ba- 
con on, iii, 14; Capt. Tetu on, 
xxxiii, 193 
Sainte-Beuve, Charles Augustin, on 
charlatanism, xxviii, 66; as a 
critic, 1, 56; life and writings, 
xxxii, 108; On Montaigne, 109- 
25; Port Royal of, xxxix, 439; 
Taine on, 440; What is a 
Classic, xxxii, 126-39 
St. Cecilia's Day, Song for, xl, 

398 
St. Clair, Sir John, i, 138 
Saint-Cyran, letter of, xlviii, 328 
St. Denis, battle of, xxxviii, 52-3 
St. Domingo, Drake at, xxxiii, 235, 
248-53, 267-8; productions of, x, 
419-20; village of, xxix, 13-14 
St. Elmo's Light, xxix, 49 
St. Etienne, Raband de, on National 

Assembly, xxiv, 315 note 
St. Helena, island of, xxix, 512-17; 

species of, xi, 432 
Saint-Hilaire, Geoffroy, on compensa- 
tion of growth, xi, 158; on homo- 
logous parts, 473; on origin of 
species, lo-ii, 15-16 
St. John, H. (see Bolingbroke) 
St. John, Newfoundland, settlement 
of, xxxiii, 270, 288-9 



St. John's River, navigation of, xliii, 

303-4 
St. Jago, Darwin on, xxix, 11-16; 

health conditions at, 387 
St. Lawrence River, navigation of, 

xliii, 306 
Saint-Lo, Edward III at, xxxv, 11; 

importance of, 11 note^ 
Saint-Martin, Capt., xxxii, 14 ^ 
St. Omer, the iconoclasts at, xix, 255 
St. Paul's Rocks, Darwin on, xxix, 

18-21 
St. Peter's, the building of, xxxvi, 

261, 269, 272 
St. Quentin, the wounded of, 

xxxviii, 46-7 
Saint-Simon, Mill on, xxv, 44; Mill 

on school of, 107-10 
St. Winifred's Well, xxxvii, 13 
Saint, Follow Your, xl, 291 
Saintre, John of, xxxv, 47, 48, 52 
Saints, Bunyan on the, xv, 58; can- 
onization of, xxv, 223-4; disputes 
on the merits of, vii, 344-6; Hume 
on relics of, xxxvii, 348; Kempis 
on the, vii, 229-31; Luther on 
glorification of, xxxvi, 326-8; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 279-80, 308 (868), 
365; patience of the, vii, 312 (3) 
Saint's Days, Luther on, xxxvi, 324 
Sais, city of, xxxiii, 33, 34, 84, 86, 

88 
Sakelde, in Kinmont Willie, xl, 

109-10, 112-13 
Saki, reference to the, xli, 978 
Sakka, the god, xlv, 625, 628, 632, 

714-16 
Saladin, Emerson on, v, 211; in 

Limbo, XX, 20 and note 7 
Salamanca, Bishop of (see Boba- 

dilla) 
Salamander, Cellini and the, xxxi, 

1 1 ; invoked bv Faust, xix, 5 1 
Salamis, ^Eschylus at, viii, 3; Aris- 
tides at, xii, 88-9; battle of, 17- 
20; Byron on, xli, 833; drama on, 
viii, 3 
Salaries, of public officials, i, 371 

(385-6); taxes on, x, 537-8 
Salathiel Pavy, On, xl, 307 
Sale, Sir Robert, in Tyler's Rebel- 
lion, xxxv, 75-6 
Salem, reference to, iv, 25 (6) 
Salih, brother of Jullanar, xvi, 344- 

52 
Salimbene, Francesco, xxxi, 25, 29 
Salimbeni, Niccoli, xx, 124 and note 
Salinator, and Fabius, ix, 49^ 
Salinator, Fuscus, Pliny on, ix, 296- 

7, 306 
Salius, death of, xiii, 353; in the 

foot-race, 192-4 
Salisbury Cathedral, Emerson on, v, 

478 
Salisbury, Earl of, in Tyler's Re- 
bellion, xxxv, 69, 70. 72, 81 



VOL. L — HC (13) 



384 



GENERAL INDEX 



Salisbury, university of, xxxv, 391 
Sallust, on the viper, xxxv, 364 note 
Sallust, on war, xxxvi, 153 
Sallustius, Cicero on, ix, 114 
Sallutio, Scipio, xii, 318 
Sally in Our Ally, xl, 414-15 
Salmanassar, reference to, iv, 395 
Salmasius, defender of Charles the 

First, iv, 5 
Salmon and Dog-fish, tale of, xlvii, 

776 
Salmoneus, in Tartarus, xiii, 231 
Salmydessos, viii, 181 and note 46 
Salomon's House (see Solomon's 

House) 
Salt, crystallization of common, xxx, 
30 note 12; the desire of vege- 
tarians for, xxix, 123; incrusta- 
tions of, in Patagonia, 89-90; 
Locke on use of, xxxvii, 17; used 
to melt ice, xxx, 38-9 
Salt-lakes, in South America, xxix, 

76-8 
Salterello, Lapo, xx, 352 note 12 
Salutations, Mohammed on, xlv, 989 
Salvani, Provenzano, xx, 192 and 

note 
Salvation, Browne on, iii, 319-23; 
Bunyan on means of, xv, 230-1; 
Calvin on, xxxix, 35, 52-3, 54; 
Dante on requisites of, xx, 313- 
15. 368-9, 422; Jesus on, xliv, 
388, 408 (18-30); Lessing on, 
xxxii, 212; Luther on, xxxvi, 262, 
269, 272, 365, 366, 369, 370, 381- 
2; meaning of, xv, 231; of non- 
Christians, XX, 368-Q, 373-4; Peter 
on, xliv, 436 (12); Kuskin on 
false ideas of, xxviii, 112; the 
wall of, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 41 
Salviati, Alamanno, xxxi, 426 note 
Salviati, Cardinal, xxxi, 119-20,124, 

285 note 
Salviati, Giovanni, xxxi, 47 note 2 
Salviati, Jacopo, xxxi, 14 note 4, 71, 

77i 78 
Salviati, Piero, xxxi, 431 
Salzburg, Archbishop of, xix, 334 
Sam, in Two Years Before the 
Mast, xxiii, 104-6, 112, 132, 418 
Sama-Ved, xlv, 844 
Samarchand, Temir's throne, iv, 332 
Samaria, founding of church in, 
xliv, 446 (5-8) ; the woman of, xx, 
232 
Samaritan, the good, xliv, 388 (33-5) 
Samaritans, belief confined to Pen- 
tateuch, iii, 290 (25) 
Samos, war with Athens, xii, 63-6 
Sampson, John, xxxiii, 237, 239-40, 

243, 246, 256, 259, 263 
Samson, Browne on, iii, 286; De- 
lilah and, iv, 290; slays with the 
jaw-bone of an ass, xv, 300 
Samson, in Samson Agonistes, la- 



ment of, IV, 418-21; his deeds 
sung by chorus, 422-3; his mar- 
riages, 424; his victory over Phi- 
listines, 425; Manoa's lament over, 
427-8; reveals secret to Dalila, 
428-9; hears of feast, 430; relates 
how shorn by Dalila, 432; his 
despair, 433-5; rejects reconcile- 
ment with Dalila, 437-43; with 
Harapha, 446-50; summoned to 
show feats of strength, 452; goes 
to temple, 454-5; his feat there, 
458-62 

Samson, Duke, in Song of Roland, 
xlix, 100, 125, 141, 153, 178 

Samson Agonistes, iv, 418-63; Bage- 
hot on, xxviii, 184-5; date of, iv, 
5; introduction to, 416-17 

Samuel, Luther on, xxxvi, 347; the 
Psalmist on, xliv, 272 (6-8) ; Saul 
and, XV, 341 

Samuel, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 
232, 250, 255, 286, 290 

San Carlo, plague of, xxi, 523 

San Diego (1834), xxiii, loi; (in 
1859), 409-11; Dana on, 126 

San Francisco (1834), Dana on, xxiii, 
231, 238; (in 1835), 395-6; (in 
1859), 396-403; Drake in Bay of, 
xxxiii, 222; history of, xxiii, 413- 

14 
San Gallo, Antonio da, xxxi, 204 

note I 
San Gallo, Francesco da, xxxi, 409 

and note 
San Juan, Dana on, xxiii, 143-4 
San Lorenzo, island of, xxix, 390 
San Pedro (in 1859), xxiii, 407 
San Pedro Island, Darwin on, xxix, 

297-8 
San Severino, Roberto of, xxxvi, 

45 

San Salvador, Columbus on, xliii, 
22 

Sanacharib, expedition against Egypt, 
xxxiii, 72 

Sancho Panza, Cervantes on, xiv, 
13; Gandaline to, 17; becomes 
squire to Don Quixote, 62-4; 
promises not to aid master against 
knights, 68-9; beaten by the 
lackeys, 70; asks for promised 
island, 79; reason of name^ 76; 
conversation with Don Quixote, 
79-84; prefers to eat ^ without 
ceremony, 85-6; the carriers and, 
II 9-21; his doubts, 12 1-6; relates 
the adventure, 128; his idea of 
knight-errantry, 128-9; adventure 
with Maritornes, 133-7; takes Don 
Quixote's balsam, 139; refuses to 
pay innkeeper and is tossed in 
blanket, 141-3; discouraged, i44' 
5; in adventure of hearse, 155-71 
tries to dissuade Don Quixote 
from perilous adventure, 163-5; 



GENERAL INDEX 



385 



his tale, 166-8; his distress, 168- 
70; rebuked for his merriment, 
172-4; plans for his future earl- 
dom, 185-6; loses his ass, 200; 
finds wallet, 201; rebels, 221-3; 
despatched with letter to Dul- 
cinea, 235-7* 304-9; his embassy, 
241-5; returns with curate and 
barber, 248-9; does not wish to 
become a churchman, 286; nor a 
ruler of Moors, 289-90; becomes 
vassal of Micomicona, 299; quar- 
rel with Quixote over Dulcinea, 
300-3; recovers his ass, 303-4; in 
wine-bags adventure, 364-8; the 
barber and, 470-2; 474-7; en- 
chanted, 486-7; promised his 
wages, 489; the curate and, 497; 
proves his master not enchanted, 
508-10; plans for his earldom, 
521-2; lament over Don Quixote, 
536; his return home, 537-8; son- 
net to, 541; epitaph on, 542; 
Lowell on, xxviii, 450-1; story of 
wine, xxvii, 222 

Sanctuary, right of, among Romans, 
ix, 388 note i 

Sand Dunes, Darwin on, xxix, 86-7 

Sandauce, children of, xii, 18, 89 

Sanderson, Robert, Walton's life of, 
XV, 326 

Sands of Dee, xlii, 11 02 

Sandwich Islanders, belief of, v, 
103; Dana on, xxiii, i49-55» 253 

Sandwich Islands, Dana on, xxiii, 

253 . 
Sandwich Land, sonw in, xxix, 

265 
Sandys, Sir Edwin, xxvii, 61 
Sandys, George, Dryden on, xxxix, 

161 
Sanga, Battista, xxxi, 102 note 7 
Sangreal (see Holy Gfuil) 
Sanhedrin, Pascal on the, xlviii, 

241 
Sanjaya, xlv, 801, 805, 806, 847, 

852, 856, 883-4 
Saiijiva, xlv, 749 
Sankara, xlv, 844 
Sankhya, xlv, 809, 813, 8^3 
Sanna, in story of Fundevogel^ 

xvii, 149-51 
Sannayas, xlv, 876 
Sansovino, Giacopo del, xxxi, 156 

note 2, 160, 371-2 
Sant Angel, Luis de, xliii, 22 
Santa Barbara, xxiii, 61-2; (in 

1859), 405-6; fandango at, 248-51; 

funeral at, 135-7 
Santa Croce, Paolo, referred to, 

xviii, 349 
Santa Cruz River, Darwin on, xxix, 

, 191-4 
Santacroce, Antonio, xxxi, 74, 75, 

Santi, the goldsmith, xxxi, 35 



Santiago, Cape Verde Islands, 

Drake at, xxxiii, 234-5, 267 
Santiago, Chili, Darwin on, xxix, 

279; Drake at, xxxiii, 218 
Santiago, island of, xxxiii, 210 
Santiago de Tolon, xxxiii, 136; 

Drake at, 161 
Santini, Giovan Battista, xxxi, 443 
Sapia, of Sienna, xx, 199 and note 3 
Sapor, and Valerian, xxxix, 103 
Sapphira, wife of Ananias, xliv, 
438 (i-io); Bunyan on, xv, 127; 
Dante on, xx, 230 
Sappho, Byron on, xli, 833 
Sappho Redivivus, vi, 345-6 
Saragossa, Charlemagne at, xlix, 

97, 196-7 
Sarah, and Abraham, xxxvi, 285; 
lies of, XV, 264; in Paradise, xx, 
420 
Sarandib, island of, xvi, 302 
Sardanapalus, xx, 351 note 6; Cah 
vin on, xxxix, 47; city-building 
of, XXXV, 378; stealing of treas- 
ures of, xxxiiii, 77 
Sarepta (see Zarephath) 
Sariputta, xlv, 716, 749; the De- 
mons and, 726-8 
Sark, battle of, vi, 183 note 5 
Sarlabous, Captain, xxxviii, 52 
Sarmatia, ix, 386 note 3 
Sarmatians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

123 
Sarmentus, Octavius's page, xii, 382 
Sarmiento, Don Juan, xxxiii, 334, 

342 
Sarmiento, Mount, xxix, 257-8 
Sarnen, Meyer von, in Wii.hei«m 

TeIvL, xxvi, 400-13 
Sarpedon, death of, xiii, 342; refer- 
ence to, 79 
Sarrebruck, Earl of, xxxv, 10, 37, 

39» 47 
Sarto, Andrea dei«, xlii, 11 30-7 
Satan, in Book of Job, xliv, 73-5 
Satan, in Paradise Lost, seducer 
of mankind, iv, 91; his fall and 
awakening in Hell, 91-2; speech 
with Beelzebub, 92-5; rises and 
wakens the fallen angels, 95-8; 
raising of his standard, 103; 
speech to the angels, 106-7; pro- 
poses man's seduction, 106, 120; 
in council of fallen angels, 1 11 ; 
undertakes to find out man and 
his ^yorld, 121-2; issues from 
council, 123; wings to gates of 
Hell, 126-7; meets Sin and Death, 
127-30; voyage through chaos to 
the world, 134-7; seen by Go(f 
flying to earth, 140; on outel 
sphere of world, 148-9; beholds 
interior of world, 15 1-2; in the 
sun, 153; inquires way to earth, 
154-5; first view of earth, 156; 
alights on Niphates, 156; his re* 



386 



GENERAL INDEX 



morse, 158-60; decides against 
submission, 160; his perturbation 
betrays him, 160; arrives at 
Eden, 160-2; sees Adam and Eve, 
164; resolves to work fall of 
man, 166-7, 170-1; found at Eve's 
ear, 177-8; before Gabriel, 179- 
83; stirs rebellion in Heaven, 
200-1, 202-3; rebuked by Abdiel, 
204; asserts self-existence of an- 
gels, 205 ; in the rebel forces, 
209; combat with Abdiel, 209-12; 
encounter with Michael, 213-15; 
encourages his forces, 217-18; pro- 
poses infernal engines, 218-19; in 
second day's battle, 221, 222% re- 
turns to Eden, 265; assumes form 
of serpent, 2(>6y 268; his spite, 
266-8; tempts Eve, 274-83; re- 
turns to Hell, 302-6; announces 
his success, 306; changed to a 
serpent, 307; how overcome by 
Christ, 355-7 
Satan, in Paradise Regained, under- 
takes to ensnare Christ, iv, 364-6; 
tempts him in guise of old man, 
371-5; appeals to fellows for aid, 
379; undertakes to tempt Christ 
again, 381; tempts Jesus to eat, 
383-6; tempts with riches, 386-8; 
tempts by glory, 388-92; tempts 
Jesus to assume his throne, 392- 
9; shows him kingdoms of earth, 
394-7; shows Rome, 400-2; de- 
mands that Christ worship him, 
403; tempts by offer of wisdom, 
404-8; warns him of sorrows in 
store, 408-9; tempts by fear, 409- 
12; carries Jesus above Jerusa- 
lem, 413; his fall, 413-14; over- 
come by Christ, 415 
Satan, Bagehot on Milton's, xxviii, 
198, 204-9; Burke on Milton's 
portrait of, xxiv, 55; Calvin on, 
xxxix, 46-7; Goethe on name of, 
xix, 102; the grotesque in ideas 
of, xxxix, 365; Mohammedan (see 
Iblis) ; meaning of name of, iv, 
304; Shelley on Milton's, xxvii, 
365-6 
Satiety, and fear of death, iii, 10 
Satire, A, by Johnson, xli, 516-17 
Satires, Sidney on, xxvii, 29; Swift 
on, 124-5; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 

314 
Satirists, Dry den on, xviii, 15-17 
Satisfaction, Bacon on, xxxix, 127; 
Johnson on, 208; never attained, 
v, 243-4, 246 
Sattwan, xlv, 864, 873, 875, 879 
Saturn, Dante on reign of, xx, 376 
note 5; in Italy, xiii, 283; Jove 
and, iv, 68; Milton on, 103; Plu- 
tarch on, iii, 47; Vesta and, iv, 35 
Saturn, the planet, Dante's seventh 
Heaven, xx, 375 



Saturnalia, feast of, ix, 235 note 3 
Saturnia, Virgil on, xiii, 323 
Saturninus, bequest of, ix, 285 
Satyr and Man, fable of, xvii, 33 
Satyric Drama, xii, 41 note 
Satyrs, reference to the, iv, 75 
Satyrus, the actor, and Demosthenes, 

xii, 202 
Satyrus, A. Caninius, relations with 

Cicero, ix, 84-5 
Saufeius, Cicero on, ix, 15 1-2 
Saul, king of Israel, xliv, 459 (21); 
Dante on, xx, 194; David and, xli, 
500; xliv, 218; Jonathan and, xliii, 
104, no; Psalms on David's de- 
liverance from, xliv, 162-6, 216- 
17; his vision of Samuel, xv, 341; 
the witch of Endor and, iii, 95 
Saul, Song of. Before His Last 

Battle, xli, 832 
Saul, the apostle (see Paul) 
Saunderson, Mr., Burke on, xxiv, 

141 -2 ^ 
Sauntering, origin of word, xxviii, 

407 
Saurophagus, Darwin on the, xxix, 

^ 64-5 . , 

Saussure, in the Alps, xxx, 235 

Saut-perdu, horse of Malquiant, xlix, 

154 
Savage, James, Channing on, xxviii, 

379 

Savage State, progress of man from, 
xxxii, 301, 309-10; Rousseau on 
the, xxxiv, 171-200, 208-9 

Savages, Darwin on, xxix, S30-1; 
poverty of, x, 5-6; power of imi- 
tation among, xxix, 221 

Save-all, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 106-11, 113 

Savella, in The Cenci, comes to 
summon Cenci, xviii, 328-9; finds 
him dead, 330-1 ; finds Orsino's 
letter, 332; with Beatrice and Lu- 
cretia, 332-5 

Savelli, Giovan Battista, xxxi, 140 
note 3 

Saveself, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
xy, 156 

Savile, Sir Henry, xxvii, 61 

Saving, economically considered, x, 
278-9; motives of, 282, 283; not 
happiness, xix, 372 

Savonarola, MachiavelH on, xxxvi, 
22\ the party of, xxxi, 31 note i, 
33 note I 

Savoyard, story of the, xxxii, 46 

Savoyard Vicar, Faith of a, xxxiv, 
235-315;, editorial remarks on, 164, 
165; Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 128 

Saw Ye Bonie Lesley, vi, 470 

Saw Ye My Dear, My Philly, vi, 

535 
Saxo Grammaticus, xlvi, 86 
Saxon Race, Emerson on the, v, 491 
Saxons, Celts and, v, 351; in Eng- 
land, 365-6 



GENERAL INDEX 



387 



Saxony, breeding in, xi, 46 

Say, M., Mill on, xxv, 44 

Say Not the Struggle Naught 

AvAiLETH, xlii, 1 165 
Say-Well, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 82 
Sayce, Mr., quoted, xxviii, 249, 251 
Saying, and Doing, Bunyan on, xv, 

Sbietta, Lo, xxxi, 440-6, 447-8, 449- 

51 

Scaeva, Cassius, xii, 287 

Scaevola Pontifex, Cicero on, ix, 7 

Scaevola, Quintus Mucins, his part 
in Cicero's essay on Friendship, 
ix, 7-9; the publicani and, 137 

Scala, Alberto della, xx, 222 note 9 

Scala, Can Grande della, Dante on, 
XX, 360 note 14; leader of Ghibel- 
lines, 283 note 6; patron of Dante, 
3; reference to, 8 note 6 

Scales (constellation), Milton on, iv, 
182 

Scali, Giorgio, xxxvi, z^ ^ 

Scaliger, on his emendations, xxxlx, 
260; on poets, xxvii, 43; Sainte- 
Beuve on, xxxii, 130; on Virgil, 
xiii, 39; xxvii, 54 

Scandal, Garrick on, xviii, 109-10; 
punishment of, in Dante's Hell, 
XX, 117-20; Sheridan's Maria on, 
xviii, 116 

Scander Beg, xlvii, 468 note 9 

Scaptius, M., ix, 149-50 

Scacramouch, xlviii, 12 note i 

Scarborough, John, i, 202 

Scaring Some Water Fowl, On, 
vi, 300 

Scarlatina, and cowpox, xxxviii, 
226-7 

Scarlet Fever, Jenner on the, 
xxxviii, 172 

Scarlok, in Robyn Hode, in adven- 
ture with knight, xl, 131, 132, 
138, 139-40; with monk, 157; at 
archery contest, 168; at shoot in 
forest, 182; with Robyn at court, 
186 

Scarmiglione, Dante on, xx, 89 

Scarron, Goldsmith on feasts of, 
xli, 517; Hugo on, xxxix, 368-9 

Scatheloke (see Scarlok) 

Scelidotherium, Darwin on the, xxix, 
93-4 

Sceptic, in Faust, xix, 182 

Sceptical Philosophy, Hume on, 
xxxvii, 337-8, 431-45 

Scepticism, Bacon on, xxxix, 147-8, 
150; Bacon on contemporary, iii, 
7; Berkeley on, xxxvii, 202^ 203- 
4, 245-6, 284, 287; Carlyle on, 
xxv, 368; defence of, xxxvii, 337- 
8; Descartes, xxxiv, 28; Emerson 
on, V, 284, 294; Hume on, xxxvii, 
324-38, 431-45; of Montaigne, 
xlviii, 395-8, 401; Pascal on, 71-7, 



78 (202), 82 (230), 125-7, 129 
(387)» 130 (390-2), 131 (395), 
14s, (432, 434); Rousseau on, 
xxxiv, 247; Socrates on, ii, 83-4 
Sceptics, Browne on the, iii, 320; 
Mill on, xxv, 34; Pascal on, xlviii, 
99 (282) 
Sceva, sons of, xliv, 473 (14-16) 
Schedo (see Schio) 
Scheggia, Raffaellone, xxxi, 449-51 
Schelling, philosophy of, v, 455 
Schicchi, (jianni, xx, 126 note i 
Schiller, Carlyle on, xxv, 461; 
Emerson on, v, 191; Goethe 
and, xix, 3; Goethe on, xxv, 
102; Letters on Esthetic 
Education, xxxii, 219-313; life 
and works, xxvi, 368; on truth, 
xxv, 367; WiLHELM Tell, xxvi, 
369-474; work of, xxxii, 220 
Schio, Girolamo, xxxi, 112 note 
Schismatics, in Dante's Hell, xx, 

117-20 
Schisms, Bacon on, iii, 11-12; breed 
atheism, 46; Milton on, 233, 235- 
6, 241-2; Pascal on, xlviii, 301 
(846), 303; Paul, St., on, xlv, 501 
(10) (see also Heresies) 
Schlegel, Friedrich, Carlyle on, xxv, 
361; CTarlyle on Lectures of, 362-4 
Schoine, Egyptian measure, xxxiii, 8 
Scholar, The, by Southey, xli, 751 
Scholar, The American, v, 5-24 
Scholars, Browne on power of, iii, 
329; (Tonfucius on, xliv, 13 (9), 
41 (20), 46 (3); Goethe on closet, 
xix, 27; manual labor and, v, 53; 
soldiers and, Don Quixote on, xiv, 
393-8; Tseng-tzu on, xliv, 26 (7); 
Tzu-chang on, 65 (i); Tzu-hsia 
on, 66 (13); unteachable, ii, 146 
(80) 
Scholarships, Smith on, x, 138-41 
Scholasticism, attacks on, xxxvii, 4 
Scholiasts, Johnson on, xxxix, 253 
Schomberg, Nicolas, xxxi, 92 note 

2; xxxix, 56 
School, Locke on going away to, 

xxxvii, 53-7 
School for Scandal, Sheridan's, 

xviii, III -96; remarks on, 104 
Schoolmaster, Goldsmith's, xli, 526-7 
Schoolmen, Bacon on the, iii, 129; 
Carlyle on the, xxv, 337-8; debt 
of, to St. Augustine, vii, 4; Hobbes 
on the, xxxiv, 372-3; Hume on 
the, xxxvii, 321; Mill on, xxv, 
248; Reformation as caused by 
the, xxxiv, 401; subtlety of, iii, 
47-8; Voltaire on the, xxxiv, 105; 
on war, iii, 52 
Schiitzenberger, M., xxxviii, 304-7^ 
Schurz, Carl, at Gettysburg, xliii, 

351 
Sciancato, in Dante's Hell, xx, 108 
Science, another kind of ignorance, 



G&NER.VI. INDEX 




GENERAL INDEX 



58e 



and. xxxii, 401: Carlylc on Lock- 
hart's L%i« of. xjtv, 41^-19; death 
of wife, 466-7' dinner with the 
Re^nt. 445-6; Emerson on. t, iilt 
46^; fame, indiflFcrcncc to, xxr, 
436; financial ruin and last writ- 
ings, 4645: a genuine, healthy 
nian. 4^p-6; Goethe's influence on, 
4^1-2; lameness, 4^;; last days, 
468: letters of. 444; l-\ddesdcl* 
Raids, 4303 ; life at Abbotsford, 
4^8-^4; life up to thirty. 4^6; life, 
middle period of, 435*^; ^-«/' of 
Napoleon Mill on, 87; love of 
animals for, 45^3 *r:^ «--: Mill 
on, 97; Minstrelsy cf i Bar- 

der, 434; national inr* 4-'7- 

8; not a great man, 4 . ; < ms 

by. xli, 755-74; poems criticiied, 
xxT, 439-41; popularity of, 411- 
\2\ in printing business. 437 8; 
productire faculty of. 46a; Kus- 
irin on heroes and heroines of. 
xrriii, 144-5 -success in literature. 
xxY, 434-5; Taine on, xxxix. 437; 
unconsaousness of, xxy, 4.^$^ 0; 
Wavtrlty Nox^els. 44^4. 4?'-9; 
Wordsworth on. xli, ' 

Scotut, Duns, Hazlitt o: •. ?o»; 

the subtle doctor, xxa 

Scowling, Marcus Aui' ii. 

^49 (24) 

Scribes. Jesus on the, xliv. 4'>4 

(45-7) 
^ ibonia, and Augustus, xiii. 38 
ihnntAnus. and his wife, ix. 254 
(see Bible) 
icero on. ix, tj(j 
Scrotuia. and inoculation, xxxriii, 
178, 703. a3i 

hOggam, My DxAiiE, ri. 460 
oop. Lord, xl. 109-10. 115 
ope. P., on earth>]uakeii, xxix. 373 
ovigni. arms of the, xx. 73 note 5 
:da. value of the. xxxi. 39 note I 

68 
. xxxix. 379- 
81 
Scudery, Mile. de. on Chaucer, 
xxxix. 178: Dryden on, xiii. 13; 
Pascal on Artam^m of, xWiii. la 
note a 
c- .„ V -holas, I. 60 

. Brownine on, xUi, 1114; 
Coleridge on, n -75-6; Emer- 

•oa on, Y, ao.- e on. xxxix, 

a68-o, a;!, a: 
Schiller on, xx 
for, xxxix. a7i 
*^.'urYy, Dani on, xxiii, 356-7 

Id the Scefing, xlix, j, 6 
^vylla, .^schylus on. viii, ^o; Bacon 
on fable of, xxxix, itl; Homer 
on, \> ■ — i-a: Milton on. iv. <;i. 
ia7. -g of her father, v'ni. 

96; I lyi^&es at, xxii, 175; Virgil 
on, xiii, 144*5 



Scythian, and the Athenian, xxxrii, 

10 
Sea. diacoloration of the. xxix. a6- 

8; Eoseraoti on th^- t, 341-^; frr.>- 

logical changes - e, xxx 

414. 415, 417; Lv ... ' " 

xl". »337; phosphv 

176-8: sunriae at, x\i;i, 13 ^.v-c 

also Ocean ^ 
Sea. '^ ■ 688-9 

Sea : 

Sea Stories, Dana on. xxiii. $ 
Sea-captains, Dana on, xxiii, 374 6. 

381-5; religious, 389-^ 
Sea-fire. Emeraon on, y, 540-t 
Sea-Maid, The Little. xTii, 255- 

76 
Sea-pen, Darwin on the, xxix. in- 

la 
Sea-power, Bacon on, iii, 83-4; 

Emerson on. y. 355-6 
Sea-Mwdust. Darwin on, xxix, 3$ 
Sea-sltifs. Darwin on, xxix, 16-17 
Sea-urcT'"-^ ♦'^rceps of, xi, 246-8 
Sea- wee .»-in on, xxix. a55-7 

Seals, i'arw.n on. xxix, 301-a; 

Franci* PrettY on. xxxiii, aia 

Q, ■-::■■-,/, 

S. U. S,, xliii, 

»o7 <4) 

Seas. Om tbe, axd Fas Avat, vi, 
5a8 

Seaaooi, Boms on the, Ti, 408^; 
Campbell on. xli. 790-1 

Sfsams, Thornton's, Wordsworth 
on. xxxix. 339*4 •> 

Seasoks. The mumaic. xli, 920-1 

Seliastian <*'' The TsuruT. xUi, 
in th k, 3&o-i; in island 

aft-- — ; 1: in plot with 

A: <; at the ban- 

QUCt, 4-*o, ■ V 

Ariel, 4-»»-3 . 

432; before Prusprro, 434, 436, 
437; in final smie. 440, 441 

Sebastian del P xxxi, 101 

•' •- ^, 118 noli - 

> '. Sir J., on cromktkg, xi, 

.*^ n. Johfiioa* on rig^t of, 

xhii, 456: Lincoln oa. 3- 
40. 34 «. 343; Lospgn on - - 
of. xxYiii. 457 

Second Sight, of Bardt, ri. 244 

Second Toought, the wiser, Tiii. 
306 

Secondary Qoalitiea, Berkeley on, 
xxxYii, 219, 223*4; Hume on. 

^ Bacon on habit of, iii. i8- 

.^, Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 209 
(7); Penn on. i. 351 

Secret, in PiLOtm't PEocaBss. xt, 
iA4-< 

s ^/ - — M-, 



390 



GENERAL INDEX 



Milton on, iv, 431; proverb on, 

xvi, 63; Webster on, xlvii, 803 
Sects, Bacon on religious, iii, 11- 

12; Browne on new, 271; Frank- 
lin on positiveness of, i, 116; 

Milton on, iii, 233, 235-6, 241-2; 

physiognomy of, v, 351; rise of 

new, iii, 144-5; Ruskin on, xxviii, 

112 
Secundus, Gains Plinius Caecilius 

(see Pliny the Younger) 
Secundus, Pomponius, ix, 242 note 

i; on public opinion, 321 
Security, Jonson on, xl, 305; 

Kempis on over-, vii, 278 (4) ; 

suburb of hell, xlvii, 806 
Sedgwick, Gen., at Antietam, xliii, 

428; at Gettysburg, 360, 380, 

422; Haskell on, 381 
Sedgwick, Prof., xxxviii, 434; Mill 

on, xxv, 130 
Sedillot, M., xxxviii, 382, 388 
Sedimentary Deposits, Lyell on, 

xxxviii, 42i-4» 43 1. 433*4 
Sedimentary Formations, rate of, 

xi, 338-9; manner of, 343*4 
Sedimentary Rocks, Geikie on, xxx, 

344-5, 354-5 
Sedition, Calvin on charges of, 
xxxix, 47-9; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 

387 
Seditions and Troubles, Essay on. 

Bacon's, iii, 38-44 
Sedley, Sir Charles, poems by, xl, 

392-3 
Seducers, in Dante's Hell, xx, 47, 

75-7 

Seeds, Darwin on destruction of, 
xi, 82; dissemination of, 203, 405- 
II, 430-1; fable of, xvii, 14-15; 
plants without, Dante on, xx, 263 
and note; plumed, xi, 90; trans- 
portation of, xxix, 479-80; use of 
nutriment in, xi, 91; winged, 
Darwin on, 158 

Seeley, Thomas, xxxiii, 238 

Seeming Wise, Essay on. Bacon's, 
iii, 67-9 

Segismund, in Life a Dream, as 
prisoner in chains, xxvi, 11-13; 
with Rosaura, 13-15; birth of, 
related by Basilio, 21-2; reason 
of imprisonment, 22-2 ; ^ plan to 
try, 23-4; his awakening in palace, 
27-30; with chamberlain, 31-3; 
with Clotaldo, 33-7; second sight 
of Rosaura, 37-8; with Astolfo, 
38-9; with Estrella, 39-40; quar- 
rels with Astolfo, 40-1 ; with the 
king, 42-7; in the tower again, 
47-51; rescued by soldiers, 53-63; 
sends Clotaldo back, 62-3; in the 
battle, 64; on his father, 65-6; 
made king, 68 

Segrais, on the ^neid^ xiii, 23-33, 



36, 37, 39, 45-8, 57; on readers 
of poetry, 60-1 ; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 
148 
Seiches of Forel, xxx, 297 
Seius, nightingale of, x, 189-90 
Sejanus, Tiberius and, iii, 71, 98-9 
Selden, Burke on, xxiv, 180; Mil- 
ton on work of, iii, 211 
Seldius, Charles V and, xxxix, 95 
Selection, by man, Darwin on, xi, 
46-9, 54-7; by man, in Elizabethan 
England, xxxv, 254-5; by man 
and nature, compared, xi, 96-7; 
by man, in New Atlantis, iii, 
183-4; Natural, xi, 93-144; Sexual, 
1 01-3; unconscious, 49-54 
Seleucus I, prophecy of, xlviii, 253 
Seleucus Callinicus, xlviii, 253 
Seleucus, Ceraunus, xlviii, 253 
Seleucus Philopator, xlviii, 254 
Self, Emerson on meaning of, v, 
74; fear of, xlviii, 124 note 12; 
Pascal on, 154 (455); Shelley on 
principle of, xxvii, 370 
Self-analyzing, Shelley on, xviii, 302 
Self-assertion, Sterling on, xxv, 267 

note 
Self-conceit, fable on, xvii, 19 
Self-condemnation, Byron on, xviii, 

433 

Self-confidence, Locke on, xxxvii, 
128 

Self-contempt, Kempis on, vii, 285 
(i) 

Self-control, Confucius on, xliv, 14 
(23), 38 (1), 44 (13); Epictetus 
on, ii, 154 (100), 183 (15); Hindu 
teaching of, xlv, 811-12, 825, 826, 
828, 289; Kant on, xxxii, 324; 
Kempis on, vii, 216 (3), 315 (i), 
336; Locke on, xxxvii, 37, 62, 93, 
184-5; Milton on, iv, 387; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 62 (160) 

Self-defence, a natural right, xxxiv, 
408; a social right, 409, 415 

Self-denial, Epictetus on, ii, 154 
(100),^ 155 (loi), 174 (159); 
Franklin on, i, 96; Kempis on, 
vii, 283 (4), 308-9, 316 (4), 336 
(3), 341 (i); Locke on, xxxvii, 
28, 33, 37; training in, 33-4, 37, 
93-4 

Self-dependence, Confucius on, xliv, 
54 (14); Pascal on, xlviii, 122 
(359) 

Self-education, Franklin's example 
of, i, 73 

Self-esteem, Kempis on, vii, 253-4; 
Milton on, iv, 261 

Self-examination, Bacon on, iii, 73; 
Burke on value of, xxivy 9; Car- 
lyle on, xxv, 339; Epictetus on, 
ii, 145 (76), 152 (93), 154 (98), 
170, (146), 182 (7); Franklin's 
plan of, i, 85-88; Kempis on, vii. 



GENERAL INDEX 



391 



232 (4) ; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 
228 (11), 232 (3O, 288 (37) 
Self-fertilization, preventives of, xi, 

1 1 1-12 
Self-help, Emerson on, v, 55-6 
Self-importance, Emerson on, v, 

24^-4 

Self-interest, Carlyle on doctrine of, 
XXV, 370; Franklin on, i, 93; God's 
providence, x, 4; as the mover of 
society, 20; Pascal on, xlviii, 38; 
Rousseau on, xxxiv, 277-8, 281 

Self-knowledge, Pascal on, xlviii, 24 
(66); Shelley on, xviii, 277 

Self-love, Kempis on, vii, 302 (i); 
Pascal on, xlviii, 42-5, 159 (474- 
7), 162-3, 164 (492), 34i» 421; 
Pope on, xl, 427-8, 433, 440, 441, 
450; Raleigh on, xxxix, 117; rea- 
son of, ix, 36; Sidney on, xxvii, 7 

Self-masterjr (see Self-control) 

Self-possession, Goethe on, xix, 79 

Self-praise, Pliny on, ix, 203 

Self-preservation, Kant on duty of, 
xxxii, 328, 352-3, 360; passions 
of, xxiv, 35-6; passions of, con- 
trasted with those of sex, 38 

Self-regarding Conduct, Mill on, 
XXV, 282-5 

Self-Reliance, Essay on, Emer- 
son's,^ V, 63-88 

Self-reliance, in children, xxxvii, 55; 
Epictetus on, ii, 118 (4), 120 (9), 
138 (61), 153 (98), 155 (103), 159 
(115), 166 (137); of heroism, v, 
132-3; Kempis on, vii, 221 (2), 
321 (3); Luther on, xxxvi, 276-7; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 202 (6,8), 
209 (5), 213 (3), 216 (18), 218 
(29), 247 (12), 249 (28); neces- 
sity of religious, v, 29, 38-41 

Self-respect, Channing on,^ xxviii, 
345; Locke on, xxxvii, 128; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 209 (7) 

Self-restraint, Hindu doctrine of, 
xlv, 826 

Self-reverence, the bridle of vice, 
iii, 178 

Self-sacrifice, Bacon on, iii, 36 

Self-satisfaction, Pascal on, xlviii, 
166 (499) ; Pope on, xl, 432 

Self-sufficingness, Emerson on, v, 
197 

Self-trumpeters, fallacy of, xxvii, 
247-8 

Self-trust, the essence of heroism, 
V, 129; of the scholar, 16-19 

Self-truth, Shakespeare on, xlvi, 102 

Self-will, Pascal on, xlviii, 159 (472), 
160 (475-6), 162 (482); Plato on, 
xii, 166 

Self-will, Mr., in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 263-5 

Selfishness, Bacor jn, iii, 63-4; Kant 
on, xxxii, 354, 361; Mill on limit- 
ing, XXV, 268; Pascal on, xlviii. 



155 (456-7), 160(477), 162(483); 
Rousseau on, xxxiv, 278, 281 

Selina, Helen, Lament by, xli, 945-7 

Selkirk, Alexander, Solitude of, 
xli, 548-9 

Selkirk, Alexander, supposed lines 
by, xxxix, 310 

Selwyn Correspondence, Emerson on 
the, V, 428 

Selymus I, Bajazet and, iii, 53 

Selymus II, Bacon on, iii, 53 

Semele, mother of Bacchus, viii, 
278, 310-11, 349-50 

Seminary Ridge, at Gettysburg, xliii, 
352 

Semiramis, Burns on, vi, 433; Dante 
on, XX, 22 

Semitic Races, Taine on the, xxxix, 
444 

Semnones, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 
117-18 

Sempronius, in CatOj xxvii, 200, 201, 
202-3, 204-5 

Senate, Burke on necessity of a, 
xxiv, 346-7; origin of name, ix, 52 

Senate, United States, xliii, 193-5; 
equal suffrage in, 204 (5); powers 
with the President, 201 (2) ; elec- 
tion of Vice-President by, 200, 210 

Senators, oath and qualifications of, 
xliii, 205 (3), 211 

Sencha, son of Ailill, xlix, 253, 261 

Seneca, on adversity, iii, 16; cold 
baths of, xxxvii, 13; Dante on, 
XX, 20; on death, iii, 9, 10; xlviii, 
337; diet of, xxxvii, 18; on edu- 
cation, 83-4; on evil opinions, 
xxxix, 70 note; on^ fame, 70; 
method of avoiding vice, iii, 312; 
Milton on tragedies of, iv, 416; 
Montaigne on, xxxii, 30, 95-6; quo- 
tations from, xlviii, 123 notes 2, 
3, 6, 16; Tacitus on, iii, 94; van- 
ity of, 135 

Seneca Indians, xliii, 247 

Senecio, Herennius, as counsel for 
Baetica, ix, 331; death of, 250; 
life of Helvidius by, 323; on Li- 
cinianus, 267; on orators, 262; 
Regulus on, 197 

Senecio, Sempronius, accused of 
forgery, ix, 309-10 

Senecio, Socius, letter to, ix, 208 

Senjer, the chamberlain, xvi, 218-19 

Sennacherib, Dante on, xx, 194; 
Mohammed on, xlv, 925 note 
(see also Sanacharib) 

Sennacherib, Destruction of, xli, 
804-5 

Sennet, defined, xix, 224 note 

Sensation (s), Berkeley on, xxxvii, 
204-38, 242-4, 247, 249, 250, 260, 
263-7, 271-2, 275-6, 282-8, 300; 
Buddha on, xlv, 747; as the Ego, 
673-5; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 323-5; 
Hume on, xxxvii, 316, 318-20, 



M 



v«.. 



. TtR -r or. w 






>' ->'ir.af 



«n^ JkSjJ^ 






Via. 



:&. IK 



;£taC 



3?* 



?»^««> r^^ •^-t-t" -«'> 



i.T« J ▼^ t«u^^*>.^ ' ■^ "^ rL*, 



L >** ^->. t < 



■HKiiat. I 






I I T ' ^1 an r. 



Ufcr 




wi: 



.-^ ^ - ,-^ 



-T^ic, 



S- 




Tfc-f 



"Bt 3t- 355 




GENERAL INDEX 



393 



Settlement Laws, of England, x, 

Skven Ravens, The, xvii, 1 14-16 

Srvcn Sages, the, ix, 9 

Seven Sleepers, legend of, xxxviii, 

412-13 ^ 

Seven Swabians, The, xvn, 216 

Seven Years* War, America in, i, 

133-49 
Severinus, St., xxxvi, 267 (29) 
Severity, Bacon on, iii, 32; with 

children, xxxvii, 36, 39, 67, 85; 

kindness stronger than, xvii, 36 
Scverus, Alexander, Machiavelli on, 

xxxvi, 66, 67, 71 
Scverus, Annius, letters to, ix, 245, 

272 
SevcruB, brother of Marcus Aurc- 

lius, li, 195 <'m)> 199 
Sevcrus, Catilius, letters to, ix, 219, 

25i» 255» 307 ^ 

Sevcrus, Septimus, Bacon on, lii, 
110; death of, 10; Machiavelli on, 
xxxvi, 67-8, 71; Plautianus and, 
iii, 71; Sidney on, xxvii, 24 

Sevcrus, in Polveucte, Pauline on, 
xxvi, 76-7; reported to be coming 
to Armenia, 78-0; his love for 
Pauline, 80-1; learns Pauline's 
marriage, 82-3; with Pauline, 83- 
6; v/ith Pauline in Polyeucte s 
prison, 107-8; determines to save 
i'olyeuctc, 108-10: denounces Felix, 
119-20; won by Christians, 120-1 

Sewa, Arnold von, in V/ilhelm 
Tell, xxvi, 400-1, 411 

Scwell, George, Dying Man in His 
Garden, xli, 493 

Seward, William IT., Alaska Pur- 

^ chaiif! and, xliii, 4^0 

Sexes, Tlume on difference of the, 
xxxvii, 376; James Mill on rela- 
tions })ctween, xxv, ^ 72-3; in 
plants, senaration of, xi, 107 

tjijc}, I*uhlius, Cicero and, xii, 247 
/tus, Bishop, XX, 401 note 5 

Scxtus, teacher of Marcus Aurelius, 

i'u 194 (9) 
Sexual Characters, secondary, de- 
fined, xi, 161; their variaoility, 

161, 166-7^ 
Sexual Passion, Burke on the, xxiv, 

37f 38-9: in state of nature, xxxiv, 

195-8; Wordsworth on origin of, 

xxxix, 301 
Sexual .Selection, xi, 101-3; beauty 

and, 212 
•on, in Macrp.th, xlvi, 367, 369 
rza, Ascanio, xxxi, 235 note 
Sforza, Francesco, citadel of^ xxxvi, 

yy, Macaulay on, ^ xxvii, 396; 

Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 24, 46, 50; 

the Milanese and, 44 
Sforza, Ludovico, Bacon on, iii, 52; 

at Milan, xxxvi, 9; Montaigne on, 

xxxii, 6 
8forza, Sforza, xxxi, 193 note 



Sguazzclla, the painter, xxxi, 205 
note 2 

Shadow, The, story of, xvii, 337-49 

Shadow of Death, valley of, xv, 248- 
52; xliv, 171 (4) 

Shadows, Celtic Isle of, xxxii, 188 

Shadrach, the slave, Dana and, 
xxiii, 3 

Shadwell, Dryden and, xviii, 3; Vol- 
taire on^ xxxiv, 139; Wordsworth 
on, xxxix, 334 

Shaftesbury, Earl of, on burlesque, 
xxxix, 186; on English poetry, 
338; Locke and, xxxvii, 3; Mon- 
tesTjuieu on, xxxii, 123; satire on, 
xviii, 3 

Shahrazad, xvi, 11 -15 

Shah-Zeman, king of Samarkand, 
xvi, 5-1 1 ; Jullanar and, 340-54 

Shahriyar, King, xvi, 5-15 

Shakalik, story of, xvi, 195-200 

Shakers, Emerson on the, v, 284-5, 
303 

Shakespeare, Arnold on, xxviii, 78, 
79, 80, 81; Arnold on selections 
from, 73; Bagehot on, 184; care- 
lessness of future fame, xxxix, 
244-5, Carlyle on, xxv, 336, 425, 
430-9, 457» 460-1; the Celtic ele- 
ment in, xxxii, 168; Coleridge on, 
xxvii, 268; inclination to comedy, 
xxxix, 226; defects of, 227-30, 244; 
on his own defects, 323 ; Dryden on, 
xviii, 18; early editions of, xxxix, 
337; Emerson on, v, 15, 149, 188, 
223, 450, 451, 452, 455-6; English 
drama, indebted to, 10; Gray on, 
xl, 467; Hamlet, xlvi, 85-199; 
TTazlitt on, xxvii, 282; his debt to 
Holirshed's Chronicles, xxxv, 228; 
Hugo on, xxxix, 370, 372, 373, 375, 
37^* 393. 403. 406; King Lear, xlvi, 
201-302; King Lear, Shelley on, 
xxvii, 356; lack of learning, xxxix, 
239-40; Landor on, xli, 926; lan- 
guage of, xxxix, 206, 227 ; Macaulay 
on comedies of, xxvii, 403, 404; 
Macbeth, xlvi, 303-75; James 
Mill on, xxv, 16; Milton on, iv, 
34; originality of his genius, 
xxxix, 240-4; as a player, 322; 
action in his plots, 237-8; the 
poet of nature, 220-3; publica- 
tions of his works, 245-6^; Rus- 
kin on creed of, xxviii, 115; 
Ruskin on heroes and heroines 
of, 141-3; Sainte-Bcuve on, xxxii, 
n3* 135; Shelley on, xxvii, 351; 
short poems by, xl, 267-89; the 
sonnet and, xli, 697; Swift on, 
xxvii, 117; The tempest, xlvi, 
377-442; The Tempest, Hunt on, 
xxvii, 309; Thackeray on, xxviii, 
7-17; Thoreau on, 426; his times 
ana sources, xxxix, 236-7; trag- 
edy and comedy mixed, 223-5; 



394 



GENERAL INDEX 



unities neglected by, 239, 230-6; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 133-5; Words- 
worth on, xxxix, 300, 321, 333-^f 
347; Wordsworth on Sonnets, 
335-6 note 

Shakespeare, Arnold's sonnet on, 
xlii, 1 175 

Shakespeare, On, by Jonson, xxvii, 

59 

Shakespeare, On, by Milton, iv, 
26 

Shakespeare, Preface to, by John- 
son, xxxix, 191 note, 218-63 

Shakespeare, Preface to First 
Folio of, xxxix, 155-6 

Shakespeare, To the Memory of, 
by Jonson, xl, 308-10 

Shakespeare, On the Tragedies of, 
by Lamb, xxvii, 313-31 

Shakiriyeh, the, xvi, 250-1 

Shallowness, Confucius on, xliv, 27 
(16) 

Shalott, The Lady of, xlii, 997- 
1002 

Shame, Burke on, xxiv, 264; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 46 (i); Dante 
on, XX, 73; defined by Hobbes, 
xxxiv, 356; Milton on, iv, 165, 
291 ; sense of, in children, xxxvii, 
41-4, 64, 71, 185; a slow poison, 
viii, 304; the only grief without 
redress, xxvi, 80; Pope on, xl, 
446; virtue and, 430; Webster on, 
xlvii, 760 

Shame, character in Pilgrim's Prog- 
ress, XV, 77-9 

Shamelessness, Epictetus on, ii, 125 
(.23) 

Shamgar, the goad of, xv, 58 

Shandy, Walter, xxv, 337 

Shang, and Shih, xliv, 35 (15) 

Shao, Confucius on, xliv, 22-3; 
music of, 12 (25) 

Shao Hu, xliv, 48 (17) note 

Shao-lien, xliv, 64-5 

Shaving, Franklin on, at home, i, 
128 

She, Duke of, xliv, 45 (16, 18) 

She Is Not Fair, xli, 937 

She Says She Loes Me Best of A', 
vi, 531 

She Stoops to Conquer, Gold- 
smith's, xviii, 197-269 

She Was a Phantom of Delight, 
xli, 667 

She Walks in Beauty, xli, 809 

She's Fair and Fause, vi, 347 

Sheba, Queen of, reference to, xix, 
216 

Shechem, Bunyan on, xv, no 

Sheep, appeal of a, vi, 43-5; de- 
struction of, for wool, X, 202; 
parable of the, xv, 207; sacred in 
Thebes, xxxiii, 26 

Sheffield, the mercer, xxxix, 27 



Shelburne, Burns on, vi, 55 

Shelley, Percy Bysshe, Arnold on, 
xxviii, 89-90; Browning's debt to, 
xviii, 356; buried in Rome, xxiii, 
4; Byron and, xxxii, 401; Carlyle 
on, xxv, 361; The Cenci, xviii, 
273-353; death of, xxvii, 298; 
Defence of Poetry, 343-77; re- 
marks on Defence of, 1, 56; life 
and works, xviii, 272; Mazzini 
on, xxxii, 408; on Milton's Satan, 
xxviii, 205; poems by, xli, 845- 
93; Serenade by, xxviii, 385-6; 
on his own works, xviii, 27^ 

Shell-fish, the heart in, xxxviii, 137- 
138 

Shells, color of, xi, 146; fresh- 
water, distribution of, 428-9; 
Lyell on, xxxviii, 426, 427; Tenny- 
son on, xlii, 1086-7; transporta- 
tion of land, xi, 438-9 

Shelton, Thos., translator of Cer- 
vantes, xiv, 3; dedication by, 5 

Shem, Pascal on, xlviii, 211 (625) 

Shemei, Winthrop on, xliii, 100 

Shen Ch'ang, xliv, 16 (10) 

Shenstone, Burns on, vi, 187; 
Wordsworth on Schoolmistress of, 
xxxix, 343 note 

Sheol, references to, xliv, 83 (9), 
89 (8), 94 (13). 100 (13), 106 
(13), III (19), 113 (6), 151 (5), 
161 (10), 179 (3), 181 (17), 207 
(14), 258 (3), 262 (48), 296 (3), 
327 (7). 351 (10) 

Shepherd, in CEdipus, viii, 230-2 

Shepherd, The Passionate, xl, 259- 
60 

Shepherd of Tender Youth, xlv, 

553-4 

Shepherd's Boy, fable of the, xvii, 
28 

Shepherd's Calendar, Sidney on, 
xxvii, 45-6 

Shepherd-dogs, S. American, xxix, 
163-4 

Shepherdess, The Unfaithful, xl, 
202-3 

Sherbrooke, Lord, quoted, xxviii, 
483 

Sheridan, Richard B., Drinking 
Song, xli, 567; on easy writing, 
xxv, 462; Goldsmith on, xli, 518, 
519; life and works, xviii, 104; 
Macaulay on, ^ xxvii, 402-3; A 
Portrait, xviii, 105-8; School 
for Scandal, 111-96; Swift and, 
xxviii, 27 

Sheridan, Thomas, xviii, 104 

Sheriff of Nottingham, in Robyn 
HoDE, xl, 132; with Little John, 
149-50; brought before Robyn 
Hode, 153-6; holds archery con- 
test, 166-7, 168; attempts to cap- 
ture Robyn Hode, 171-2; captures 



GENERAL INDEX 



395 



knight, 172-3; killed by Robyn 

Hode, 174-S 
Sherman, Roger, xliii, 160 note 
Sherman, Wm. T., march of, to the 

sea, xlii, 1490 
Sherramuir, The Battle of, vi, 

379 
Sherwell, Thomas, xxxiii, 199 
Sheykh and the Hounds, story of 

the, xvi, 23-6 
Sheykh and the Mule, story of 

the, xvi, 26-"] 
Sheykh and the Gazelle, story of 

the, xvi, 20-3 
Sheytans, species of genii, xvi, 9 

note 
Shiftiness, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 366, 

381; lines on, viii, 434-5 
Shifts, Penn on, i, 354 
Shih, and Shang, xliv, 35 (15) 
Shimei, reference to, xli, 497 
Ship, The Building of the, xlii, 

^,1332-43 ^ 

Ship-masters, Dana on, xxni, 374-6, 

381-5; religious, 389-90 
Ship Money, case of, v, 360 
Shipley, Jonathan, i, 5 
Shipman, Chaucer's, xl, 22 
Shippen, quoted, xxxiv, 86 
Ships, Franklin on speed of, i, 163- 

4; invented by Prometheus, viii, 

172 
Shirley, Braddock*s secretary, i, 141 
Shirley, Gen., Franklin on, i, 143, 

161-2 
Shirley, James, poems by, xl, 359- 

60 
Sho'haib, xlv, 917-18 
Shoemaker's Holiday, The, xlvii, 

447-515; remarks on, 445 
Shoes, Locke on, xxxvii, 11 
Shoes, The Red, xvii, 349-54 
Sholts, Harrison on, xxxv, 374 
Shongi, Zealand chief, xxix, 443-4» 

453. ^ . ^ .0 

;5hooting Star, in Faust, xix, 183 
Shorten Sail, xl, 475-6 
Short-hand, Franklin's, i, 8; Locke 

on, xxxvii, 145 
Shortreed, Mr., and Scott, xxv, 

430-2 
Short-wind, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 220 
Shovel, Sir Cloudesly, monument of, 

xxvii, 84 
Show, a poor substitute for worth, 

xvii, 18 
Shrewdness (see Cunning) 
Shrewsbury, Duke of, Dryden on, 

xiii, 431-2 
Shrimps, Harvey on, xxxviii, 90; 

the heart in, 137-8 
Shroud, The, a story, xvii, 207-8 
Shrubbery, The, xli, 555 
Shu-ch'i, xliv, 17 note 10, 23 (i4)> 

58 (12), 64 (8) 



Shu-sun Wu-shu, xliv, (>^ (23), 68 

(24) 
Shuckburgh, E. S., translator of 

Cicero, ix 
Shun, Emperor, xliv, 21 (28), zy 
(18, 20, 21), 42 (^22), 47 (6), 52 
(4, 45), 68 (i) note 
Shusy Pye, xl, 85 
Shuter, Mr., the actor, xviii, 201 
Siberia, remains in, xxix, z^yd-y 
Sibyl, Virgil on the, xiii, 145-6 (see 

Deiphobe) 
Sibylline Books, Bacon on the, iii, 
59; Hobbes on, xxxiv, 396-7; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 212 (628) 
Sic a Wife as Willie Had, vi, 461 
Sichaeus, and Dido, xiii, 87, 157; in 

Virgil's Hades, 22^ 
Sicilian Bull, the, xx, 112 note i 
Sicilian Vespers, reference to, xx, 

318 note 10 
Sicily, changes of species in, xxxviii, 
426-7; Coleridge on government 
of, V, 332-3; geology of, xxxviii, 
427; popes in, xxxvi, 310-11; Ra- 
leigh on history of, xxxix, 119 
Sicinnus, Plutarch on, xii, 17^ 
Sick Lion, The, fable of, xvii, 13 
Sickles, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 
356, 359» 367-7i» 425, 439; Haskell 
on, 350, 367 
Sickness, Epicurus on, ii, 2^fi (41); 
lessens fear of death, xxxii, 20-1 ; 
Pascal on use of, xlviii, 370-8; 
Pliny on virtue in, ix, 326; Rous- 
seau on causes of, xxxiv, 175-6; 
Woolman on, i, 207, 244-5 
Siddhartha Gautama, xlv, 588 
Sidney, Sir Philip, Arcadia of, xlyi, 
202; Arcadia of, Johnson on, xxxix, 
228; Arcadia, written at Wilton 
House, V, 427; Defense of Poesy, 
xxvii, 7-55; Elizabeth and, xv, 388; 
Emerson on, v, 191; Johnson on 
language of, xxxix, 206; Jonson 
on, xxvii, 60; life and works, 5-6; 
poems by, xl, 213-17; Pope on, 
444; Pugliano and, xxvii, 7; Shel- 
ley on, xli, 890; ugliness of, v, 
317; Wotton on, 386 
Siebel, in Faust, xix, 80-94 
Siege Perilous, the, xxxv, 111-12, 

114; made by Merlin, 143 
Siegfried, mortality of, v, 96 
Sienna, the Brigata Godereccia of, 

XX, 124 note 7 
Siennese, Dante on the, xx, 124 note 

6, 201 note 8 
Sierra Leone, Pretty on, xxxiii, z^z 
Sieve, superstition of the, xix, 98 
Sieyes, Burke on, xxiv, 434*5 
Sigebert, the monk, xx, 331 note 29 
Sigedrifa, The Lay of, xlix, 393-5; 

remarks on, 267 
Sigemund, saga of, xlix, 29-^0 
Siggeir, king of Gothland, xlix, 278- 



396 



GENERAL INDEX 



82; sons of, 284; with Sigmund 

and Sinfjotli, 288-9; l^is death, 290 

Sighs, De Quincey's Lady of, xxvii, 

^.339-40 

Sight, Berkeley on reahties of, 
xxxvii, 234-5 ; Burke on means 
of, xxiv, 115;, Burke on pleasures 
of the, 15; Milton on. sense of, iv, 
421; Whitman on the, xxxix, 414- 

.15 
Sigi, son of Odin, xlix, 275-6 
Sigismund, Emperor, and Huss, 

xxxvi, 333 
Sigismund, father of Manfred, xviii, 

.438 
Siglorel, the wizard, xlix, 145 
Sigmund, in Volsunga Saga, xlix, 
278; the sword of, 279-80; King 
Siggeir and, 280; the wolf and, 
283; Signy's children and, 283-4; 
his son Sinfjotli, 284-8; his re- 
venge on Siggeir, 288-90; mar- 
riage to Borghild, 291; at death 
of Sinfjotli, 295-6; last battle, 297- 
9; the avenging of, 308-12; re- 
marks on story of, 2(>'j 

Sign-Posts, Versicles on, vi, 343 

Signora, the, in I Promessi Sposi 
(see Gertrude) 

Signy, daughter of Volsung, xlix, 
278-9, 280-5, 288, 289, 290 

Sigrun, Queen, xlix, 292, 293, 294- 

^.5, 385-7* 389-92 

Sigurd Fafnir s-Bane, birth and 
growth of, xlix, 301-4; his sword, 
306-7; Grifir's prophecy, 308; 
avenges his father, 308-12; slays 
Fafnir, 312-15; Regin and, 316- 
17; hears of Brynhild, 317-18; 
takes gold of Fafnir, 319; meet- 
ing with Brynhild, 319-26; his 
semblance and array, 326-7; at 
Hlymdale, 327-8; renews troth to 
Brynhild, 328-30; Brynhild on, 
332-3; his marriage to Gudrun, 
333-6, 396, 422; his wooing of 
Brynhild for Gunnar, 337-9, 396- 
7, 415-16, 421; with Gudrun, 340; 
his visit to Brynhild in grief, 344- 
7; slaying of, 347-50, 398-402,417- 
18, 421, 422-3; lament for, 351-7; 
his daughter, 358; burned beside 
Brynhild, 359, 410-11, 413; fame 
of, 359-60; Morris on, 273; re- 
marks on story of, 267, 268 

Sigurd, King, and Eystein, v, 357 

Sigurd, Short Lay of, xlix, 396- 
412; remarks on, 2^^ 

Sihon, king of Amorites, xliv, 320 
.(11) 

Silanus, Julius, in Catiline conspir- 
acy, xii, 240, 242; Cicero on, ix, 84 

Silas, the disciple, xliv, 464 {22^ 
27)y 465 (32); with Paul, 465 
(40), 467-9, 471 (5) 

Silence, Bacon on habits of, iii, 18- 
19; Carlyle on, xxv, 347-8, 394; 



Confucius on, xliv, 8 (18), 53 (7), 
61 (19); Emerson on, v, 160-1; 
Franklin's maxim of, i, 83, 84; 
Kemjpis on, vii, 233-5; in love, 
xlviii, 424; may be a lie, xxviii, 
292; Montaigne on, xxxii, 42; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 20 (44) ; Penn on, 
i, 352 (129), 401 (118-20) ; Shake- 
speare on, xlvi, 102; sole cure of 
wrong, viii, 25; speech and, Car- 
lyle on, xxv, 413; terror in, xxiv, 
.63 
Silenus, Don Quixote on, xiv, 125; 

Hugo on, xxxix, 364, 365 
Silicified Trees, Darwin on, xxix, 
^ 351-2, 373 

Siloa, reference to, iv, 90 
Siloam, tower in, xliv, 396 (4) 
Silurian Period, in Europe, xxx, 

358-9 
Silva, Pedro de, xxxiii, 334-5 
Silva, in Egmont, xix, 297-300, 302, 

322 
Silvanus, xlv, 528 (19) 
Silver, demand for, x, 182-3; as 
measure of value, 43; More on, 
xxxvi, 202-3; price of, x, 182; 
reason of value of, 422; seldom 
found pure, 182; value of, com- 
pared with corn, 186-7; variation 
in value of, 38-9, 42, 48; varia- 
tion, effect of, on rents, 40-1 (see 
also Precious Metals) 
Silvia, daughter of Tyrrheus, xiii, 

260 
Silvia, by Shakespeare, xl, 269-70 
Silvio, in Duchess of Malfi, xlvii, 

724, 725, y26y 72S, 768, 769 
Silvius ^neas, Virgil on, xiii, 23^ 
Silvius, Jacobus, on veins, xxxviii, 

124 
Simeon, xliv, 363 (25-35); finds 
Jesus in the temple, iv, 369; Her- 
bert on song of, xv, 405; prophecy 
of, iv, 378 
Similes, Bunyan on, xv,^ 175; Burke 
on pleasure from, xxiv, 18; Dry- 
den on use of, xiii, 42-3; Johnson 
on, xxvii, 194-5; Sidney on, 51; 
Swift on, 121 
Similitudes, Bacon on, xxvii, 347 
Simmias, with Socrates in prison 

(see Ph^do, Plato's) 
Simoisius, Burke on, xxiv, 133 
Simon, Archbishop of Canterbury, 

XXXV, 73 
Simon of Cyrene, xliv, 422 (26) 
Simon, the Indian, xliii, 155 
Simon Lee, the Old Huntsman, 

xli, 662-5 
Simon Peter, chosen apostle, xliv, 
373 (14); Jesus and, 370 (3-ii)» 
378 (40) ; mother-in-law of, 369 
(38-9) ; in Paradise Regained, iv, 

376-7 
Simon, son of Onias, panegyric on, 
xxiv, 69-70 



GENERAL INDEX 



397 



Simon, the sorcerer, xliv, 446 (9- 
i3>, 447 (18-24); Bunyan on, xv, 
1 10; Dante on, xx, 79 
Simon, the tanner, xliv, 451 (43) 
Simon of Tours, xx, 244 note 2 
Simon, the Zealot, xliv, 373 (15), 

430 (13) 
Simonide&, of Ceos, xii, 197 note; 
Hiero and, xxvii, 41; Themistocles 
and, xii, o-io 
Simony, denned, xxxvi, 299; punish- 
ment of, in Dante's Hell, xx, 47, 
79-82 
Simple, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

43; hanged, 219-20 
Simplex Munditiis, xl, 297 
Simplicianus, St. Augustine on, vii, 

i23-5» 129-30 
Simplicity, Confucius on, xliv, 46 
(27); Goethe on, xix, 129; Jon- 
son on, xl, 297; Kempis on, vii, 
252; necessary to friendship, ix, 
31; reward of, vi, 243; Whitman 
on, xxxix, 418 
Sims, and Dana, xxiii, 3 
SiMSON, William, Epistle to, vi, 

92-7 
Simulation, Bacon on, iii, 17-20; of 
love, xlviii, 426-7 (see also Hy- 
pocrisy) 
Sin, Augustine, St., on, vii, 27-32, 
76-7, 105-7; Berkeley on, xxxvii, 
274; Bunyan on living in, xv, 
209; denouncing and abhorring, xv, 
86; future punishment of, vii, 242- 
4; in gold and in rags, xlvi, 281; 
knowledge of, necessary to virtue, 
iii, 212-13; man not compelled to, 
xxxiv, 287; Omar Khayyam on, 
xii, 984-5; Pascal on, xlviii, 225- 
6, 330; Pascal on source of, 341, 
346, 358; problem of (see Evil); 
retribution of (see Retribution) 
Sin, in Paradise Lost, at the gates 
of Hell, iv, 127; announces her- 
self to Satan, 129-30; opens gates, 
132-3; paves road to world, 136; 
journeys to earth, 300-5; arrives 
m Paradise, 309-10 
Sinai, Mount, cause of sounds on, 
xxix, 382; references to, iv, 12 
^.(17), 351; XV, 24 
Sincere, the shepherd, in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 125-8, 297 
Sinceritv, Franklin on, i, 58, 83; in 

friendship, v, 11 5-16 
Sinclair, Sir John, at Otterburn, 

XXXV, 93 
Sindibad (see Es-Sindibad) 
Sinfjotli, son of Sigmund, xlix, 285- 

91, 293-4» 295-6 
Singers, high reward of, x, 113 
Single Life, St. Paul on, xlv, 510 

(32, 34) 
Single Life and Marriage, Essay 

ON, iii, 22-3 
Single Men, greatest, iii, 20 



Sinking Funds, misapplication of , x, 

582 
Sinnis, reference to, xxvi, 128 
Sinon, betrays Troy, xiii, 105-11; 

Chaucer on, xl, 45; in Dante's 

Hell, xx, 127-8 
Sinope, water supply of, ix, 423 
Sins, the Seven Deadly, in Faustus, 

xix, 220-2 
Sion (see Zion) 
Siracides, on beggary, xxxix, 98; 

on God, 109; quoted, 70 
Sirens, the, xxii, 170; Dante on the, 

XX, 223; Milton on the, iv, 70; 

Ulysses and the, xxii, 173-4 
Siret, the surgeon, xxxviii, 53 
Sirius, distance of, xxx, 330; refer- 
ences to, xiii, 136, 335; worshipped 

by Arabs, xlv, 909 note 4 
Sisera, and Jael, iv, 443; reference 

to, xliv, 253 (9) 
Sismondi, and Manzoni, xxi, 3 
Sisters, and brothers, Browning on, 

xviii, 380 
Sisters, The Twa, xl, 54 
Sisyphus, Homer on, xxii, 167; Jon- 
son on, xlvii, 554; Socrates on, ii, 

28 
Sitones, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 122 
Siward, in Macbeth, in war against 

Macbeth, xlvi, 361, 365,368-9,371, 

372; on his son, 374 
Siward, the younger, in Macbeth, 
o x^vi, 371, 374 
Six Nations, Treaty with the, 

xliii, 246-9 
Six Swans, The, xvii, 141-5 
Sixtus, Laurence and, vii, 258 (2) 
Skadi, xlix, 275-6 
Skanda, xlv, 844 
Skanderbeg, xlvii, 468 note 9 
Skeletons, at Egyptian banquets, 

xxxii, 16, 20 
Skelton, John, xxxix, 27-8; Milton 

on, iii, 214 and note 
vSkenc, and his wife, xiii, 1230 
Skepticism (see Scepticism) 
Sketch in Verse, vi, 357-8 
Sketches, unfinished, why pleasing, 

xxiv, 68 
Skill, Kant on imperatives of, xxxii, 

345-6, 347-8 
Skill, Mr., in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 235-7 
Skin-changers, xlix, 286 note 
Skinner, Cyriack, Sonnets to, iv, 

87, 88 
Skinner, John, Johnson on, xxxix, 

196-7; Tullochgorum, xii, 581-3 
Skipper Ireson's Ride, xiii, 1434-7 
Skrellings, the, xliii, 13, 15-17 
Skunks, Darwin on, xxix, 92 
Sky, Kelvin on color of the, xxx, 

283-5; Omar Khayyam on the, xii, 
^ 983 

Skylark, The, by Hogg, xii, 785-6 
Skylark, To a, by Shelley, xii, 851-4 



398 



GENERAL INDEX 



Skylark, To the, by Wordsworth, 

xli, 659-60 
Slander, Penn on, i, 353 (145); 
proper attitude toward, ii, 176 
(169); Shakespeare on, xlvi, 160; 
superiority to, ii, 119 (7) (see also 
Detraction) 
Slanderers, Sheridan on male, xviii, 

116 
Slang, Jack, in She Stoops to 

Conquer, xviii, 205, 210 
Slave Labor, compared with free, 
X, 85; VVoolman on, products of, 
i, 298 
Slave-making Ants, xi, 275-9 
Slave Trade, in Treaty of Ghent, 
xliii, 282; in Webster-Ashburton 
Treaty, 300, 306-7; Woolman on, 
i, 250, 251-3, 309 
Slavery, abolition of, in America, 
xxviii, 455-60; abolition of, in 
rebellious states, xliii, 344-6; at- 
tempted justification of, i, 211- 
13; congressional control of, 
xliii, 198 (i), 204 (5); Darwin 
on, xxix, 525-7; Darwin on in- 
stances of, 35; Emerson on, xlii, 
13 15; Epictetus on, ii, 131 (41); 
among the Germans, xxxiii, 109- 
10; in Greece and Rome, iii, 81; 
Homer on, xxii, 246; impossible 
in state of nature, xxxiv, 200; 
Lincoln on, xliii, 451; Lincoln's 
attitude toward, 334, 341 ; Lowell 
on, xlii, 1449-50; in Massachu- 
setts, xliii, 83-4; in New Jersey, 
1, 186 note; origin of, xxxiv, 214- 
15; Pascal on, xlviii, 79 (209); 
the peace of, iv, 119; production 
and, i, 211; prohibited in U. S., 
xliii, 210; Quakers and, i, 176, 
215-17, 221, 233-4; 238, 261, 284; 
in southern colonies, 215-16; in 
the territories, xliii, 339; Whittier 
on, xlii, 1 42 1 -4 
Slavery Contracts, illegal, xxv, 311- 

12 
Slave's Lament, The, vi, 465 
Slavonic Race, Freeman on the, 

xxviii, 276-7 
Slay-good, the giant, xv, 274-5 
Sleep, Browne on, iii, 342-3; Burke 
on, xxiv, 124; of children, Locke 
on, xxxvii, 22-4; Coleridge on, 
xli, 707; Goethe's Egmont on, 
xix, 329; of impostors, Shelley 
on, xviii, 324; Milton on, iv, 38, 
61; Shakespeare on, xlvi, 325, 
344, 402-3; Shelley on, xli, 855 
Sleep, The, by E. B. Browning, 
^ xli, 968-70 
Sleep, To, by Daniel, xl, 226 
Sleep, To, by Keats, xli, 920 
Sleep, To, by Sidney, xl, 217 
Sleep, To, by Wordsworth, xli, 696 * 



Sleeping Beauty, by Rogers, xli, 

^ 596-7 

Sleeping Beauty, story of, xvii, 

146-9 
Sleepy-head, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 220 
Sleigh-bells, Poe on, xlii, 1283-4 
Sloane, Sir Hans, i, 44 
Sloane, Sir John, Museum of, v, 

345-6 
Slocum, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

356, 358, 380, 422; Haskell on, 

381 
Sloth, the sin, in Faustus, xix, 

221-2 
Sloth, in Pilgrim's Progress, xv, 

43; hanged, 219-20 
Slothfulness, Ecclesiastes on, xliv, 

352 (18) 
Slough of Despond, xv, 18-20, 192 
Slow-pace, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 220 
Slow-worm, Harrison on the, xxxv, 

364 

Sluggishness, in children, xxxvii, 
114-17; lines on, xxxix, 309-10 

Smallness, as source of beauty, xxiv, 
96-7, 131-4^ 

Small-pox, chicken-pox and, xxxviii, 
182; cow-pox and, 155-62, 169-70, 
181, 183, 188, 195 note, 197, 203, 
206-9, 211, 213-14, 214, 216 note 
220, 221, 223-6, 227y 231; heel- 
disease of horses and, 162-4, 193, 
207-8; inoculated, 178, 202-3; mor- 
tality from, 239; propagated by 
contagion, 238; cases of re- 
turn of, 203-5, 229-30; scrofula 
and, 231; source of, 153, 172; 
spurioMS, 184-7; treatment of, 
200, 225; varieties of, 173, 199 

Smallpox, Vaccination Against, 
xxxviii,, 153-231 

Smart, Christopher, Song to David, 
xli, 496-510 

Smellie, William: a Sketch, vi, 
268 

Smells, beauty in, xxiv, 106; Berk- 
eley on, xxxvii, 212, 219; as 
sources of the sublime, xxiv, 75-6 

Smiles, of villainy, xlvi, no 

Smith, Adam, life and works, x, 
3-4; Mazzini on, xxxii, 402; Mill 
on, xxv, 24; Wealth of Nations, 
x; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 338 
note 

Smith, Alexander, Barbara, xlii, 
II 92-4 

Smith, Dr., Andrew on African 
animals, xxix, 97-9 

Smith, F., on ants, xi, 276, 293 

Smith, Rev. George, Burns on, vi, 
105 

Smith, Gold win, on Jamaica Com- 
mittee, xxv, 190 note 



GENERAL INDEX 



399 



Smiih, James, Epitaph on, vi, 

i27i Episti^e to, 175-180 
Smith, John, with Drake, xxxiii, 
197 

Smith, John, the Quaker, i, 283 
Smith, Sydney, Fallacies of Anti- 
Reformers, xxvii, 237-65; life and 
works, 236; quoted, v, 431 

Smith, Sir Thomas, on the English, 
XXXV, 382 

Smooth-man, Mr., in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 104 

Smoothness, as cause of beauty, 
xxiv, 97-8, 103, 127-30 

Smugglers, Smith on, x, 563 

Smyrdis, prophecy of, xlviii, 252 

Snails, Harvey on, xxxviii, 90; the 
heart in, 137-8 

Snake, in School for Scandal, 
with Lady Sneerwell, xviii, iii- 
13; suspected of treason, 115; 
detected in forgery, 139; em- 
ployed by Lady Sneerwell in 
plot, 187; confesses, 192-3 

Snakes, Buddhist ideas of, xlv, 
724; Darwin on, xi, 213; South 
American, xxix, 108-9 

Sneerwell, Lady, in School for 
Scandal, conversation with Snake, 
xviii, 111-13; with Joseph Sur- 
face, 11^-15; on slander, 116; 
plots against Maria, 122; in gos- 
sip with friends, 129-33; at Lady 
Teazle's after the scandal, 179-81; 
with Joseph Surface, 186-7; ac- 
cuses Charles, 19 1-2 

Sneezing, Pascal on, xlviii, 62 (160) 

Snorri, son of Karlsefni, xliii, 16,21 

Snow, Darwin on red, xxix, 342; 
effect of, on rocks, 337-8; height 
of perpetual, 261; structure of 
frozen, 344 note; transformation 
of, to ice, XXX, 245-6, 251 

Snowdon, Ruskin on, xxviii, 160 

Snow-line, Helmholtz on the, xxx, 
223-4 

Snow-White and Rose-Red, xvii, 
226 

■>now-White, Little, xvii, 155-64 

So Oft as I Her Beauty do Be- 

^ hold, xl, 255 

Soap-bubbles, experiments with, xxx, 
40-1, 51-2 

Soaring, of birds, Darwin on, xxix, 
200-1 

Sociability, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 423-4 

Social Acts, natural, ii, 225 (6), 290 
(4), 296 (21), 302 (20) 

Social Contract, Rousseau on the, 
xxxiv, 224-5 

Social Improvement, dependent on 
art, xxxii, 244 et seq 

Social Phenomena, Huxley on, xxviii, 
231 

Social Pleasures, Burns on, vi, 88; 
Epictetus on, ii, 118 (3) 



Social Reform, Emerson on, v, 
270-2; possibility of, 58; to come 
through love, 59-60 

Social Relations, penalty of false, v, 

99 . ^ . 

Social Science, Comte s stages of, 

XXV, 1 08 
Social Virtues, and self-love, xl, 440, 

441, 450 
Socialism, Austin on, xxv, 116; of 
early Christians, xliv, 433 (44*5 )» 
438 (32-6); Emerson on, v, 270-1; 
Lowell on, xxviii, 483-4; Mill on, 
xxv, 149-51; of Moravians, i, 149- 
50; More on, xxxvi, 177, 178-9, 195- 
6, 197, 200-1, 250, 252, 253, 254; 
Morris on, xlii, 1242-5; St. Simo- 
nian, xxv, 109; Woolman on, i, 
269 
Society, aimlessness of, v, 245; Ba- 
con on aversion to, iii, 69; Burke 
on civil, xxiv, 207-8; Carlyle on, 
xxv, 341-4; Carlyle on modern, 
348-62; as a contract, Burke on, 
xxiv, 244-5; desires that dispose 
to, xxxiv, 385; Emerson on the 
state of, V, 6, 80; the end of mar\ 
ii, 230 (16), 232 (30), 236 (14); 
founded on mutual deceit, xlviii, 
44; frivolousness of, v, 197; good, 
defined, 208-9; the individual and, 
xxv, 212-17, 281-301, 302-3; indi- 
viduality and, v, 66; interests of, 
in relation to landlords, wage- 
earners, and capitalists, x, 217-20; 
man in relation to, xl, 433-41 ; 
Mill on so-called, xxv, 147; Mill 
on tyranny of, 206-10; natural and 
ideal, xxxii, 225-30; necessary to 
man, ix, 38; never advances, v, 
85-6; Pascal on, xlviii, 79 (211); 
Pascal on ties of, 108 (304); pas- 
sions which belong to, xxiv, ^7- 
46; passions that inclins to, xxxiv, 
406; a perpetual disappointment, 
y, 113; rights and duties of man 
in, xxxiv, 408-10, 417-29; Rous- 
seau on origin of, 168, 189-90, 
202-25 ; Rousseau on spirit of, 
232-3; Rousseau on state of, 264; 
state of, effect on profits, x, 93, 
100; state of, effect on wages, 73- 
7, 85-6; state of, in relation to its 
poetry, xxxix, 356-71; worst, is 
some relief, xix, 63 
Society, A Prospect of, xli, 532-44 
Sociology, Huxley on study of, 

xxviii, 231-2 
Socinians, Voltaire on the, xxxiv, 

84-5 
Socrates, Apology op, ii, 3-29 
Socrates, on absolutes, ii, 97-8; Al- 
cibiades and, xii, no, 1 12-13, 114- 
15,^ 116; xlyi, 25; Aristophanes on, 
viii, 465; ii, s; Aspasia and, xii, 
62; Browne on, iii, 292; calmness 



•400 



GENERAL INDEX 



of» ii, 139 (64), 149 (85); on 
causes, 90-6; charges against, i, 4, 
5» 10; Cicero on, ix, 9, 10, 12; 
the cook and, xxxix, 374; as cor- 
rupter of youth, ii, 20-1; Dandini 
on, V, 279; in Dante's Limbo, xx, 
20; on death, ii, 15-16, 24, 26, 27- 
8, 50-9, 61 ; on death and the 
Thirty, xxxii, 22 ; death of, why 
delayed, ii, 45-6; deformity of, iii, 
113; demands reward for his serv- 
ices, ii, 23-4; on discontents, 298 
(39) ; dress of, 297 (28) ; on duty, 
165 (132); idea of earth, 105-10; 
eloquence of, 3; Emerson on, v, 
70, 131, 145, 211; Epictetus on, 
ii, 124 (21), 127 (32), 134 (52), 

151 (91), 154 (99). 177 (175), 179 
(184); on essential opposites, 98- 
loi; Euripides and, viii, 286; on 
doing evil, ii, 38; on God, 126 
(28); hatred against its origin, i, 
4, 7-10; on the hereafter, 104-5, 
iio-ii; on hospitality, 178 (181); 
Hugo on, xxxix, 360; Hume on 
death of, xxxvii, 416; as example 
of humility, i, 84; on immortality, 
iif 59-63. 68-73, 85-104; on incan- 
tations, v, 182; inward voice of, 
ii, 18; on knowledge as recollec- 
tion, 63-8; last hours of, 46-114; 
life and philosophy, i, 2; the lyre 
of, ix, 55; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 
198, 207 (3), 209 (6), 254 (66), 
257 (3); Meletus and, 10-15; Mill 
on, XXV, 35; Mill on condemna- 
tion of, 22y\ Milton on, iv, 390, 
406-7; on misology, ii, 82-4; mis- 
sion of, 157 (108); on his mis- 
sion, 18-20, 23; Myrto and, xii, 
108; early studies in natural sci- 
ence, ii, 90-1; on obedience to 
laws, 39-41; ostentation of, iii, 
134; Pascal on, xlviii, 273 (769), 
337; Penn on, i, 360 (^22-}^; Per- 
diccas and, ii, 297 (25) ; on pleas- 
ure and pain, 48; on his pleasure, 
172 (153); as a poet, 48-9; xxvii, 
42; Pope on, xl, 447; in prison, 
ii, 179 (185); prophesy on ac- 
cusers, 26-7; as public officer, 19; 
on public opinion, 35-7, 297 {2^); 
on his readiness for trial, 133 
(48); refuses to beg mercy, 21-2, 
25-6; refuses to escape, 37-44; re- 
fuses to be silent, 25; religion of, 
12-14, 23; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
311; against Sicilian expedition, 
xii, 125; sons of, ii, 21, 29, 34, 43. 
112; on the soul, xxxiv, 104; on 
suicide, ii, 49-50; method of teach- 
ing, xxxii, 36; teachings of, ii, i, 
16-17; xxviii,_ 87; virtue's chief 
favorite, xxxii, 53; vision of, ii, 
Z2\ wealth of, xii, 81; wisdom of, 
ii, 6-9, 16; on women, xxxix, 11- 



13; world-citizenship of, ii, 121 

(15) ; xxxii, 46 
Socrates, the historian, iii, 200 
Socratic Method, Franklin and the, 

i, 18-19, 36-7; Mill on the, xxv, 

20, 247-8 
Soderini, Francesco, xxxi, 18 1-2, 184 
Soderini, Piero, xxxi, ip note i; 

Vespucci's letter to, xliii, 29 
Sodom, Browne on, iii, 284; Bunyan 

on, XV, 115; Milton on wickedness 

of, iv, 103; Mohammed on, xlv, 

902 note, 910 note 5 
SoDGER, I'll go and be a, vi, 38 
Soest, in Egmont, xix, 247-53, 266- 

72, 293-5, 313 
Sofala, Milton on, iv, 332 
Softness, beauty in, xxiv, 103 
Sogd, hospitality of, v, 130 
Sogdiana, mentioned, iv, 396 
Soger, term applied to sailors, xxiii, 

129 note 
Sogliani, Giovanbattista, xxxi, 29 
Soirees, Carlyle on, xxv, 409-10 
Solace, God the true, vii, 288-p 
Solamona, king of Atlantis, iii, 168- 

169 
Solar Spectrum, xxx, 274 
Solar System, motion of the, xxx, 

326 
Soldanieri, Gianni, xx, 136 note 11 
Soldiers, ambition of, iii, 98; love 

of, 29; Machiavelli on different 

kinds of, xxxvi,^ 42-50; marriage 

of, iii, 22; Massinger on qualities 

of, xlvii, 829; pay of, why low, x, 

115; quartering of, in United 

States, xliii, 207 (3); students 

compared with, by Don Quixote, 

xiv, 393-8 
Soldier's Dream, xii, 789-90 
Soldier's Fortune, The, xxvi, 287- 

366 
Soldier's Return, The, vi, 486-8 
Soldiers' Song, in Faust, xix, 39 
Soldiers* Song, from Jolly Beggars, 

vi, 129-30 
Solemn League and Covenant, vi, 

548 
Solemn Music, At a, iv, 41-2 
Solicitation, liberty of, xxv, 307-9 
Solidification, heat evolved in, xxx, 

38-9 
Solidity, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 223 
Solinus, Milton on, iii, 253 note 

35 
Solis Dan, to Don Quixote, xiv, 16- 

17 
Solitary Reaper, The, xii, 670-1 
Solitude, by Pope, xl, 4x5-16^ 
Solitude, Bacon on real, iii, 69; 
Burke on, xxiv, 40; contrary to 
human nature, ix, 38; delight in, 
iii, 69 ; impossible, 340-1 ; Kempis 
on, vii, 233-5; Marvell on, xl, 386, 
387; Milton on, iv, 36-7, 38, 255, 



GENERAL INDEX 



401 



270; Pascal on, xlviii, 53; Penn 
on, i, 333; Selkirk on, xli, 548; 
terror in idea of, xxiv, 63 
Solomon, Arabian idea of power 
of, xvi, 310-12; in the Arthurian 
Legends, xxxy, 197-9; Browne on 
salvation of, iii, 322; Bunyan on, 
XV, 107; Burns on loves of, vi, 
^i; Burns on Proverbs of, 151; 
in story of City of Brass, xvi, 
320-4; Cowley on, xxvii, 65; 
Dante on, xx, 329-30 and notes 
20, 21; Dante on salvation of, 
344 note 23; Dante on wisdom 
of, 343 and notes; as author of 
EccLESiASTES, xliv, 338; on fools, 
xxxvi, 165; the genii and, xvi, 
29 note; the harlots and, xliii, 
99; idolatry of, iv, loi, 380; 
Kempis on, vii, 350 (4); his 
largeness of heart, xxxix, 83-4; 
lost book of, iii, 289 (24) ; magic 
palace of, xlii, 1144; on mercy, 
xliii, 100; Milton on, iv, 274, 
354; mines of, xxxv, 338; Pas- 
cal on, xlvii, 65 (174), 221 (651), 
273 (769); Psalms attributed to, 
xliv, 146, 235-6, 315; Sainte- 
Beuve on, xxxii, 136; Sidney on 
Songs of, xxvii, 14; temple of, 
iv, 100; xliv, ^45 (47); versified, 
vi, 192; on violence, xxxix, 98; 
on wisdom and riches, 95; wives 
of, iv, 381; XV, 263-4; works of, 
in New Atlantis, iii, 170 
Solomon's House, in New Atlantis, 
iii, 162, 170, 181-91; comment 
on, 152; a father of, 179-80 
Solon, Croesus and, iii, 78; on 
custom, xxxvii, 29; epitaph of, 
ix, 72; on happiness, xxxii, 5, 6; 
old age of, ix, 5^; Pisistratus 
and, 72; on reward and punish- 

j ment, 185; Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 

I 136; Sidney on, xxvii, 9 
Solosmeo, Antonio, xxxi, 140 note 

4, 141, 144 
Somebody, For the Sake of, vi, 

545-6 
Somerby, George, xxiii, 424 
Somers, Lord, xxiv, 166-7; Addi- 
son and, xxvii, 168; on Paradise 
Lost, xxxix, 337 note 

I Somerset, Duke of, on colleges, 
xxxv, 404 

i Somerset, Earl of, and Dr. Donne, 
XV, 344 

I Son of the Vine, in New Atlantis, 

; iii, 173, 175 

I Soncino, Raimondo di, despatches 

I of, xliii, 48-50 
Song, by Blake, xli, 606 
Song, by Donne, xl, 314-15 
Song, by C. G. Rossetti, xlii, 1228 
Song, by Sidney, xl, 213-14 



Songs, Milton on, iv, 34, 36, 41, 

125 
Sonnet, The^ by Wordsworth, xli, 

696-7 
Sonnets, Pascal on false, xlviii, 17; 

Taine on study of, xxxix, 435; 

Wordsworth on, 314 
Sonnets from the Portuguese, 

xli, 950-68 
Sons, Yu-tzu on duties of, xliv, 5 

(2); Confucius on duty of , 6 (11), 

7 (5, 6, 7, 8), 14 (20), 45 (18) 
Soothfastness, xlv, 864-5, 873, 874, 

879 
Sopater of Beroea, xliv, 475 (4) 
Sophia, Princess, title of, xxiv, 

172 
Sophists, the, xii, 6 
Sophocles, the ^gaean and, xlii, 
II 84; ^schylus and, viii, 442; 
Antigone, 243-84; Aristophanes 
on, 421, 466; Carlyle on trage- 
dies of, XXV, 382; Hugo on, 
xxxix, 365 ; life and works, viii, 
196; Milton on, iv, 417; CEdipus 
THE King, viii, 197-242; old age 
of, ix, 53-4; Pericles and, xii, 45; 
Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 137 
Sophocles, duke of Athens, y, 125-6 
Sophronius, and Basil, xxviii, 62 
Sorcery, Pascal on, xlviii, 287-8 
Sordello, in Dante's Purgatory, xx, 

170 and note 9 
Sorli, son of Gudrun, xlix, 376, 380, 

444, 452, 454, 455-6 
Sorrow, Levana and Our Ladies of, 

xxvii, 337-41 
Sorrow (s), Augustine, St., vii, 52; 
better than laughter, xliv, 347 (3) ; 
come in battalions, xlvi, 168; follv 
of, ii, 123 (19); godly and world- 
ly, xlv, 535 (lo); joy and, xix, 
120; knowledge is, xviii, 403 ; Pas- 
cal on, xlviii, 375-6; past and fu- 
ture, xlvii, 767; pleasure of, xxvii, 
^69; Pliny on feeling and bear- 
ing, ix, 341; Raleigh on two sorts 
of, xxxix, 102; tears and, xxvii, 
299 
Sorrows of Werther, Goethe's, xix, 

3; Carlyle on, xxv, 354 
Sosicles, the Pedian, xii, 19 
Sosthenes, xliv, 471 (17); xlv, 501 
Sot, fable of the, v, 73 
Sotthiya, the grass-cutter, xlv, 631 
Soul, ancient ideas of the, xxxiv, 
104-5; Arabian belief of the, iii, 
270 (7); Augustine, St., on thci 
vii, 60-1; Berkelev on the, xxxvii, 
268, 269-71; body and, Buddha 
on, xlv, 662-y, 678-9; body and, 
Epictetus on, ii, 178 (178), 120 
(10); body and, Hume on, xxxvii, 
358, 363; body and, Marcus Aure- 
lius on, ii, 200 (2), 207 (3), 212 
(16), 213 (3), 239 (29); Cicero 



402 



GENERAL INDEX 



on the, ix, 74; creation and trans- 
mission of the, iii, 301-2; Dante 
on the, XX, 250; Descartes on 
creation of the, xxxiv, 48; Des- 
cartes on existence of the, 29, 32, 
39; Emerson on the, v, 10, 139; 
Emerson on laws of the, 27; Epic- 
tetus on care of the, ii, 139 (64); 
as a harmony of the body, 78-9, 
85-9; immortality of the (see Im- 
mortality) ; Hindu doctrine of the, 
xlv, 807, 860, 864; Locke on the, 
xxxiv, 105-6; Lowell on the, xlii, 
1466; Montaigne on the, xlviii, 
397; nature and, v, 8; Omar 
Khayyam on the, xli, 981, 982; 
Pascal on the, xlviii, 82 (230), 83 
(233); Pascal on immateriality of 
the, 120 (349); Plato's two horses 
of the, Xli, 362 note; pre-exist- 
ence of the (see Pre-existence) ; 
Prior on the, xl, 408 (269); pro- 
gressiveness of the, v, tj\ Raleigh 
on the, xxxix, 106; reality of the, 
V, 104; relations of the, to the 
divine spirit, 75; Rousseau on the, 
xxxiv, 264-6, 270-1; Shakespeare 
on the, xl, 288 (136); spherical 
form of the, ii, 292 (12); strength 
of, Di9genes on, 138 (62); trans- 
migration of (see Transmigra- 
tion); Voltaire on the, xxxiv, 107- 
9; Whitman on the. xxxix, 418 

Soul-sides, the two, xlii, 11 43 

Soul of the World (see Over-soul) 

Sound, More on pleasures of, xxxvi, 
215-16; as source of the sublime, 
XXIV, T2-^\ velocity of, xxx, 265- 
6; vibrations of, compared with 
light, 268-70, 275; wave theory of, 
263-7 

Sounds, beauty in, xxiv, 104-5; 
Berkeley on, xxxvii, 212-14, 219, 
282; Burke on intermitting, xxiv, 
73-4; repetition of, cause of sub- 
limity in, 1 17-19 

South, Tennyson on the, xlii, 1005 

South America, Darwin on, xxix, 
22-393; Drake in, xxxiii, 211-21; 
geology of west coast, xi, 342-3; 
species of, 417, 419; zoology of, 
compared with North, xxix, 143-4; 
zoology, changes in, 188-9; 

South American Republics, Monroe 
on, xliii, 297-8 

South Shetland Islands, vegetation 
of, xxix, 265 

South Wind, Kingsley on the, xlii, 
1 1 04 

Southampton, tides at, xxx, 288 

Southern Cross, Dana on the, xxiii, 
30; Darwin on the, xxix, 531 

Southern ^ Hemisphere, climate and 
productions of, xxix, 265-8; leav- 
ing in, 457 

Southern, Henry, xxv, 64, 86 



Southey, Robert, poems by, xli, 749- 
52; on romance-poetry, xxviii, 
76 

Southwell, Sir Richard, xxxvi, 131- 
2, 135 

Southwell, Robert, The Burning 
Babe, xl, 222 

Sovereignty, Hobbes on rights of, 
xxxiv, 413; Vane on popular, xliii, 
138-40 

Sower, parable of the, xliv, 379 (d 
15) 

Space, abolished by the soul, v, 
140-1 ; Aristotle on, 182; Hume 
on idea of, xxxvii, 437; Pascal 
on, xlviii, 78 (206), 435-7; Pascal 
on infinite cfivisibility of, 437-44 

Spain, Bacon on empire of, iii, 81; 
Freeman on, xxviii, 267-8; Goethe 
on, xix, 86; Monroe on affairs of, 
xliii, 297, 298; in New World, x, 
421-3; Raleigh on kings of, xxxix, 
88-93; Raleigh on wealth of, 
xxxiii, 318-20, 329-30; under 
Roman dominion, xxxvi, 18; 
Taine on history of, xxxix, 449; 
taxes on precious metals in, x, 
398-401; Treaty of U. S. with, 
(1819), xliii, 286-95; Treaty op 
U. S. with (1898), 469-77 

Spangenberg, Bishop, i, 146 

Spaniards, Pare on cruelty of, 
xxxviii, 33-4, ^9; slowness of, iii, 
66; wisdom of, 67 

Spaniels, Harrison on, xxxv, 369, 
370-1 

Spanish Armada, Drake and the, 
xxxiii, 126; Macaulay on the, xli, 
940-3; prophesied, iii, 97; Provi- 
dence in defeat of, 281 

Spanish Infantry, Machiavelli on, 
xxxvi, 89 

Spanish Language, Sidney on, xxvii, 

53 
Spanish Literature, Taine on, xxxix, 

461 
Spanish Student, Serenade from the, 

xlii, 1325 
Spanish War, Treaty ending, xliii, 

469-77 
Sparhawk, Harrison on the, xxxr, 

357 
Sparks, Jared, ordination of, xxviii, 

318 
Sparrow, Francis, xxxiii, 379, 380 
Sparta, age honored at, ix, 69; boys 
in, iii, 103; Dante on, xx, 171-2; 
Descartes on pre-eminence of, 
xxxiv, 13; education in, iii, J56; 
elders of, ix, 52; reason of free- 
dom of, xxxvi, 43; iron money 
of, X, 31; a military state, iii, 8i- 
2; military spirit of, xxvii, 392; 
!NIilton on, iii, 204; policy of, 
toward Athens and Thebes, xxxvi, 
19; precious metals in, x, 333; 



GEXER.AX INDEX 



403 



on Isvs of, zpcnr, a^^ 
hooored in* bikiii. 



Sj-ecfc-j-sness, bea'sty cor-trasted -w-itb. 



85 

Spartans. Bacon on the, ui, 80; 
Emeraon on the, r, 52; lyrics 
aniooi[ tbe, zxyii* 31; respect for 
s en i o ritj , xxxiii, 41 ; Taine on the, 
TTTTX, 445 (see also Laccde- 
mooians) 

Spaj, deHnrd, xxxr, 361 

Spealdng, Locke on good, xxxwn, 
171-2; Manzoni on thin king be- 
fore, xxi, 538; Pascal on* xtwm, 
20 (47) 

Spedea, aberrant, xi, 468; allied, 
Strugs^ ^"i^ each other, 90; an- 
cient and modem compared in 
omniTation, 384-8; icsenblance 
ot ancient and modem* 388-90; 
ce ntr e s of creation of, 400-3; con- 
nected Irf minct finks, 377-82; 
why distinct, 333-4; doobtmC 62- 
9; duration of, 347-8; gco- 
graphical distribation of, 39S-44p; 
groups of, appearance awl dis- 
appearance, 307-8; intercrossing 
between, 112, 115-16; of large 
genera, vary moot frequently, 71* 
2; of large gcner^ resemble each 
other, 73-4; lost, do not reappear. 
365* ^6^71 Ljdl on changes of, 
xxxriu, 424-7. 430-1. 434; Lyell 
on extinction of, 425, 427, 430-1; 
meannig of, xi, 58; new, appear 
giadnad^, 3<»4. 365; ^ToraUe 
conditions for production of new, 
114-20; production of new, in New 
Atlantis^ iii, 183-4; number of, 
limits to, zi, 139^41; origin of, 
progress of opinion on, 9-24. 
past, present, and future, 134; 
evidence of their being permanent 
▼arie tiei^ ya, 73-4 . 165. 33o; Rous- 
seau on immutability of, xzxir, 
260; wmultancous changes of. xi, 
373-7; special creati<m of, objec- 
tions to doctrine, 72, 109. 143, 
150, 151, 162, 165, 168, 174-5. 
189, 202, 206, 258^1, 309-10, 330. 
417. 432-3. 43^ 437. 438, 44^ 
473-4, 475. 493-4. 5io, 512, 513, 
514. 5>^ 5*7. 5«8. 522; steriUty 
between* 42, 298-318; sterihty 
docs not determine, ^oo, 321-2; 
saecessmn of, in geological record, 
364-94; sodden appearance of, in 
geological record, 354-9: Tarieties 
co mpare d with, 322-3, 326, 349- 
50; how Tarieties b eco nir. 122-9; 
why wdl defined without mler- 
mediate forms, ly^S^i wide-rang- 
ing; ynrj most, 69-70; in wide- 
ranging genera, 444-5 

Spbcxbs, Ouctv OF, DASwnr's. xi 

Specific Characters, more ▼ariahle 
than generic, xi, 164-68 



&, XX Til, 89* 
- ~TX, 280- 

iC pris- 
-r on 



in, S^ ^. i, 

16^17: .--. --JiTii, 

^ 77-85 

94 

Spectrum, the 
i; Faraday 
mati c, 274 ; s 
the, xxxrr, : . 

Speculation C^ 
bethan Eng c 
pr<^ks of, X. 120-1 

Speculation (philosophical). Bacon 
on, iii, 94; Browne on, 277; Bud- 
dha on useless, xhr, 662^; Carlyle 
on, xxr, 355^. 368; Hume on, 
xxxrii, 442; Krnwiis on, Tii. 213 
(i), 272 (4); Leaang on re- 
Ugioas, mil, 212-13, ifilton on, 
ir* 248; Rousseau on, xxxir, 248, 
249, 261; S cgHkis m and, xxxvii, 
3^7: Adam South on,_x, 15-2^; 
Sydnejr Smith on, xxm, 260-1 

Specolatnre Men, Goethe on, xxx, 
70 

Spedding, J., editor of Bacon, 



Speech, Bacon on, iii, 1 11 ; Bnike on, 
xxir, 53-7. 158; Carlyle on, xxr, 
393-^ 413; Colendge on, xxrii, 270; 
Confucius on, xliT, 47 (4). 49 (21), 
53 (7). 55 (40). 57 (6); Epicte tu s 
on, ii, 147 (81), 175 (164), 182 (5, 
6) ; Franklin on, i, 19, 83; Hohbes 
on. xxxir, 335-43: liberty of, ICiO on. 



xxT, 215, 21S-59, 260; liberty of, 
in U. S., xliii, 207 (i); Marcus 
Aurdius's rule of, ii, a6i (^), 302 
(17); Montaigne on, xxxii. 65-7; 
Paocal on freedom of, idriii, 319- 
20; Penn's rules of, i, 352. 401-r: 
Quaker idea of. X93-4. 236; re- 
Cj^iumn ess of, idr. 874; rules of. 
▼n, 2221 ^dney jan, xxrii, 34; 
Thenustodes on, in, 73 

Spcght. editor of Chaucer, tttjt, 
170 note 16 

Spdling, learned hj play, zxxrii, 

« '39 ^ . . 

SpoMse, Dr., i, 152-3: apparatni 

purchased by Frankiin, 119 
Spcnee, WUHam. on Bhcfcfcifk, 

xxir, 141; on England, ▼, 406 
Spevcz, Szk Patuck: a ballad, xL 

75-7; Coleridge on, xli. 74? 
Spencer, Earl of Kent, xxxix, 76 
Spencer, Herbert, on Ik ginn i ng of 
m, XI, 138; idea of 
and, 6; on ongm off 
16; 00 principle of Kfe^ 
318; in <f entn r ot term **Sanriwal 



of fittest,** 77 



404 



GENERAL INDEX 



Spencer, the elder, in Edward II, 

xlvi, 44, 48-9, 59, 60 
Spencer, the younger, in Edward 
II, xlvi, 26-8; presented to king, 
35; advice to king, 43-4; on 
Gaveston's death, 46; adopted by- 
king, 47, 48; in the battle, 48, 
49; sends Levune to France, 51; 
with Edward after battle, 55-6; 
in Edward's flight, 57, 59; in the 
abbey, 60; captured, 62-3 
Spenser, Edmund, Arnold on, xxviii, 
78; Burke on Belphebe of, xxiv, 
144; creed of, v, 454; A Ditty, 
xl, 250; Dryden on, xiii, 13, 2T, 
56, 57, 60, 61, 64, 65; Emerson 
on, v, 149, 450; Epithalamion, 
xl, 238-50; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 286; 
heroes and heroines of, xxviii. 
146; Johnson on, xxxix, 244; 
language of, 206; life and works, 
64 note; James Mill on, xxv, 16; 
Milton on, iii, 212-13; Perigot, xl, 
252; Prefatory Letter on Faerie 
QuEENE, xxxix, 64-8; Prince Ar- 
thur of, xiii, 20; Prothalamion, 
xl, 233-8; Shelley on, xxvii, 354; 
Sonnets, xl, 254-7; Thoreau on, 
xxviii, 426; Wordsworth on, 
xxxix, 321, 333; Wordsworth on 
sonnets of, xli, 697 
Spensippus, death of, xxxii, 14; 

school-house of, 58 
Spermatozoa, nature of, xxxviii, 358 
Sphinx, CEdipus and the, iv, 414 
Spices, Locke on use of, xxxvii, 17 
Spider, parable of the, xv, 206 
Spiders, aeronautic, xxix, 173-5; 
Browne on, iii, 278 (15); in Bra- 
zil, xxix, 46-8; flies and, Harrison 
on, XXXV, 366-7; Pope on instinct 
of, xl, 436 
Spinners, The Three, xvii, 80-2 
Spinola, Ambrogio, xxi, 489, 525, 

539 
Spinoza, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 247; 

Emerson on, v, 148; Hobbes and, 

xxxiv, 318 
Spinther, Lentulus, death of, xii, 

330 
Spiridion, Calvin on, xxxix, 39 note 

24 
Spirit, superior to intellect, v, 198 
Spirit of the Times, Goethe on, xix, 

29 
Spirit, The, in the Bottle, xvn. 

Spirits, Browne on, iii, 294-8 ; Hobbes 
on possession by, xxxiv, 370-2; of 
the impure, ii, 73-4; Locke on, 
xxxvii, 124-6, 174-6; Milton on, iv, 
loi, 174, 195-6, 215-16; terror of, 

51-2 

Spiritual, true meaning of, v, 291 
Spiritual Delights, Kempis on, vii, 
260 (i) 



Spiritual Enlightenment, prayer for, 
vii, 298-9 

Spiritual Estate, Luther on the, 
xxxvi, 278-83 

Spiritual Gifts, St. Paul on, xlv, 517 
(1-3O 

Spiritual Knowledge, Channing on, 
xxviii, 340-1 

Spiritual Life, admonitions profit- 
able for the, vii, 213-47 ^ 

Spiritual Progress, Kempis on, vii, 
222-3 

Spiritualism, in Utopia, xxxvi, 242 

Spite, repaid by spite, iv, 268 

Spleen, Harvey on the, xxxviii, 136 

Splendor, Goldsmith on, xli, 528, 
529; happiness and, 528-9 

Sponges, no heart in, xxxviii, 137 

Spontaneity, Emerson on, v, 10, 74 

Spontaneous Generation, Fremy on, 
xxxviii, 370; Lamarck on, xi, 10, 
136; Pasteur on, xxxviii, 354, 382 

Spontaneous Impressions, Emerson 
on, V, 64 

Spontaneous Variation, Darwin on, 
xi, 223; instances of, 222-3 

Sportfulness, of heroism, v, 131 

Sporting Plants, xi, 28 

Spotswood, Col., i, 102 

Sprengel, on flowers, xi, 157; on 
hermaphrodites, 109; on fertiliza- 
tion, III 

Spring, Burke on pleasantness of, 
xxiv, 67-8; Campbell on, xli, 791; 
Collins on evenings in, 493; Goethe 
on, xix, 40; Milton on, iv, 73; 
Shelley on the, xli, 856; Shake- 
speare on, xl, 269; Tennyson on 
the, xiii, 1 010; Swinburne on, 
1247-9 

Spring, by Nashe, xl, 266-7 

Spring, by Shakespeare, xl, 270 

Spring, Early, by Wordsworth, xli, 

659 
Spring, Ode on, by Gray, xl, 463-4 
Spring, Song Composed in, by Burns, 

vi, 200-1 
Spring, To, by Blake, xli, 598 
Spring's Welcome, xl, 213 
Springs, as motive force, xxx, 197 
Spruceness, Pascal on, xlviii, iii 

(316) 
Spur-kites, xxxiii, 160 
Spurinna, Cottius,^ Pliny on, ix, 226-7 
Spurinna, Vestricius, Pliny on, ix, 

226, 240-1 ; letters to, 248, 287 
Squinternotto, bravo in The Be- 
trothed, xxi, 335 
Squire, Chaucer's, xl, 13-14 
Squirrels, flying, origin of, xi, 185 
Srubdaire, the giant, xlix, 255 
Ssu-ma Niu, xliv, 39 (3, 4, 5) 
Stabat Mater, xlv, 565-7 
Stael, Mme. de, on English poets, 

xxxix, 345 
Stafford, Edward, 3rd Duke (of 



GENERAL INDEX 



405 



earlier creation), (i 478-1 521), 
XXXV, 401 
Stafford, Humphrey, 1st Duke (ear- 
lier creation), (1402-1460), xxxix, 
77-8, 79, 80 
Stafford, Lord, at Crecy, xxxv, 23, 

32 
Stag, defined, xxxv, 361; fable of 

the, V, 102 
Stagirite, reference to the, xx, 156 
Staig, Jessie, lines on, vi, 532 
Stamford, university of, xxxv, 391 
Stamp Act, xliii, 157 note, 158; 

Franklin on the, i, 4, 173 
Stamp-duties, x, 528-34; legal, 473 
Stand-fast, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 309-i3» 316, 320-2 
Standing Armies, advantages of, iii, 
83; danger of, 54; Johnson on, 
Xliii, 457 J Macaulay on, xxvii, 
393; Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 42-50; 



of, X, 469-70; Vane on a, xliii, 
133-5; Washington on, 255 
Standish, John, and Wat Tyler, 

xxxv, 70; made a knight, 80 
Standley, William, i, 214, 223 
Stanhope, Earl, on French Revolu- 
tion, xxiv, 159 
Stanley, Mr., in School for Scan- 
dal, xviii, 138; Sir Oliver Surface 
as, 175-7 
Stanley, Lord, Mill on, xxv, 296 
Stanton, Daniel, i, 235, 236 
Stanton, Richard, xxxiii, 2Z1 
Stanzas, by Shelley, xli, 877-8 
Star-Chamber, on unlicensed print- 
ing, iii, 194 
Star-fish, eyes of, xi, 191; forceps 

of, 246-8 
Star-form, in nature, xlii, 1301 
Stars, Addison on the, xl, 410-11; 
Berkeley on the, xxxvii, 245; 
Burke on grandeur of the, xxiv, 
68; composition of, xxx, 328; 
dark, 335-6; distance of, 329-30, 
333-4; distribution of, in space, 
33 1 » 332-3; Emerson on beauty of 
the, V, 25 ; the forget-me-nots of 
angels, xlii, 1369; Habington on 
the, xl, 258-9; influence, of, Cellini 
on, xxxi, 241 ; influence of, Mil- 
ton on, iv, 311; Marcus Aurelius 
on lesson of the, ii, 297 (^2^^ ; 
Milton on the, iv, 49, 51, 174, 188, 
247-50; Newcomb on contempla- 
tion of the, xxx, Z2^\ number of, 
334-5; proper motions of, 328,332, 
333-4; Raleigh on the, xxxix, 113; 
Shelley on the, xli, 879; Wotton 
on the, xl, 294-5; 
Stars, The Light of, xlii, 131 7 
State, Burke on the, xxiv, 244-5; 
church and, xliii, 78-9; duties and 
expenses of the, x, 446-88; 
education by the, xxv, 315-17; 



Emerson on the, v, 249, 250, 
261; Hobbes on the, xxxiv, 319; 
the individual and the, ii, 39-41, 
230 i22')y 245 (54), 287 (33); 
V, 258; natural and ideal, xxxii, 
225-30; no, that hangs on one 
man's will, viii, 266; the perfect, 
lines on, v, 249; revenue of the, 
X, 489-590 ; Ruskin on meaning of, 
xxviii, 140; Taine on the, xxxix, 
454; what constitutes a, xli, 592-3 
(see also Society) 

State Church, Burke on a, xxiv, 
240-70 

State Enterprises, Smith on, x, 489- 
93 

State Rights, Lowell on doctrine 
of, xxviii, 457 

Stateliness, preferable to fellowship, 
V, 217; Penn on, i, 407 

Staten Land, Dana on, xxiii, 334 

States, ages, three of, iii, 147; 
founders of, 136; Confucius on 
strength of, xliv, 39 (7); Gold- 
smith on barren, xli, 538; Gold- 
smith on strength of, 532; 
Machiavelli on foundations of, 
xxxvi, 42; Raleigh on ruins of, 
xxxix, 74; rise and fall of, iii, 282 
(17); temporality of, xlviii, 206 
(614); tributary, xxxvi, 8-12, 18- 
19, 72-z\ Woolman on prosperity 
of, i, 240-1 

States, True Greatness of, iii, 76- 

^84 

States, of U. S., admission of new, 
xliii, 203-4; commerce between, 
196 (3); committee of, 174-5, 
176; disputes between, 172-4, 
202 (i, 2); Federal government 
and, 222-3, 224-7, 229-30, 239; 
Hamilton on union of, 216; Jay 
on union, 217-21; Johnson on 
rights of, 456; Lincoln on rights 
of, 335, 342; powers of, 208 
(10); relations of the, under 
Confederation, 169; relations of, 
under the Constitution, 203; re- 
publican government secured to 
the, 204; rights and powers of, 
under the Confederation, 169-72, 
174, 176-7; rights and powers of, 
under Constitution, 197 (16), 
198 (6) (Sec. 10), 210; suits 
against, not allowed, 209-11 

States-General, French, Burke on 
composition of, xxiv, 189-92 

Statesmanship, ideal and practical, 
xxxvi, 174-6; Lowell on, xxviii, 
445-6, 449, 452, 454, 460; New- 
man on, 35 

Statesmen, Bacon on, iii, Tj\ 
Burke's standard of, xxiv, 305; 
Confucius on, xliv, 7,^-7 \ Goethe 
on, policy of, xix, ^56; Plutarch 



406 



GENERAL INDEX 



on, xii, 56; Raleigh on, xl, 208; 
Smith on, x, 365 

Statianus, Plutarch on, xii, 364 

Stationary State, effect of, on 
profits, X, 100; Smith on, 86; 
effect of, on wages, 75-6, 85-6 

Statius, Dryden on, xiii, 6; in 
Purgatory, xx, 234-8; Shelley on, 
xxvii, 366 

Statue and Lion, fable of, xvii, 
24 

Statues, Mohammed on, xlv, 1018; 
public, Pliny on, ix, 22^-^ speak- 
ing, Plutarch on, xii, 189 

Statute Laws, Winthrop on, xliii, 

I lO-II 

Stauffacher, Gertrude, in Wilhelm 

Tell, xxvi, 377-80 
Stauffacher, Werner, in Wilhelm 
Tell, with Pfeiffer, xxvi, 376-7; 
with Gertrude, stirred to action, 
377-81; at building of keep, 382; 
conversation with Tell, 383-4; 
at Fiirst's, 386-94; at the rendez- 
vous, 401-15; with Tell at Altdorf, 
4-27-36; at death of Attinghausen, 
442-7; with Rudenz, 448-9; re- 
ports murder of Emperor, 463-7; 
in final scene, 474 
Stay My Charmer, vi, 314 
Stay, O Sweet, xl, 318-19 
Steadfastness, Confucius on, xliv, 
24 (25), 45 (^22)\ Hindu doctrine 
01, xlv, 879 
Steam, volume of, xxx, 120-3 
Steam-engines, Helmholtz on, xxx, 

199-202 
Steele, Sir Richard, Addison and, 
xxvii, 166, 170, 176, 177, 180, 182, 
184-6; on Addison, 188, 189, 190- 
i; the Guardian of, 177; life of, 
88; on Peerage Bill, 185; religion 
of, xxviii, 16; the Spectator and, 
xxvii, 172, 174-5, 181; The Spec- 
tator Club, 89-94; the Tatler of, 
171; Thackeray on, xxviii, 10, 18 
Steer Her Up an' Haud Her Gaun, 

vi, 552 
Steevens, George, editor of Shake- 
speare, xxxix, 335 
Steeving, described, xxiii, 269-70 
Stefano, in The Betrothed, xxi, 133 
Stella, Swift on death of, xxvii, 131- 
40; Thackeray on, xxviii, 22 (see 
also Johnson, Esther) 
Stella, Elegy on, vi, 283-6 
Stenches, Burke on, xxiv, 75 
Stendhal, Taine on, xxxix, 459-60 
Stephanas, household of, xlv, 502 

(16), 526 (15) 
Stephano, in The Tempest, xlvi, 

408-12, 4i5-i9» 430-2, 440-1 
Stephen, St., the Martyr, appointed 
deacon, xliv, 441 (5); editorial 
remarks on teachings of, 428; 
martyrdom of, 445 (54-60); mar- 



tyrdom of, Dante on, xx, 208-9; 
Pascal on death of, xlviii, 282 
(800); trial of, xliv, 441 (9-53) 

Stephen, St., the Sabaite, Hymn by, 
xlv, 556 

Stephen, King, and the Bishop of 
London, xxxv, 266-7; the tailor 
and, xl, 192 

Stephen, Leslie, on Berkeley's Dia- 
logues, xxxvii, 198; on Hume, 
xxvii, 214 

Stepney, Wordsworth on, xxxix, 347 

Stereo-chemistry, Pasteur on, xxxviii, 
28a 

Sterility, cause of, xi, 309-12; in 
dimorphic plants, 319-22; of first 
crosses and hybrids, 298-305; laws 
of, 305-9; origin of, 312-18; in 
species, eliminated by domestica- 
tion, 42, 305; among varieties, 
325-6 

Sterling, John, Carlyle and, xxv, 
331; in London Club, 85; London 
Review and, 133; Mill and, 4; 
Mill on, 100-3 

Sterne, on readers, xxv, 354 

Stv'silaus, of Ceos, xii, 7, 82 

Stesimbrotus, on Pericles, xii, 53 

Steven, Rev. James, poem to, vi, 
235-6 

Stevenson, Robert Louis, life and 
works, xxviii, 286; poems by, xlii, 
1260-2; Truth of Intercourse, 
xxviii, 287-94; Samuel Pepys, 295- 
316; remarks on Pepys of, 1, 57 

Steward, Chaucer's, xl, 27 

Stewart, Jack, Dana on, xxiii, 411 

Stewarts (see Stuarts) 

Stheneboeas, references to, viii, 451, 
452 

Sthenelus, in the -(^neid, xiii, 112, 

407 

Stillingfleet, Bishop, Locke and, 
xxxiv, 107 

Stimson, Ben, Dana on, xxiii, 420^ 

Stinging, power of, in marine ani- 
mals, xxix, 489-90 

Stingo, the Landlord in She Stoops 
TO Conquer, xviii, 211, 212-14 

Stirling, Earl of, To Aurora, xl, 
322-3 

Stobi, John of, ii, 184 note 

Stock, divisions of, x, 224-32; in- 
vestment of, 231-2; lent at inter- 
est, 291-300; taxes on, 528-34 (see 
also (Tapital) 

Stock, custom of pulling the, vi, 117 
note 5 

Stock-dove, Wordsworth on the, 
xxxix, 318 

Stockings, invention of, x, 214 

Stoeckl, Edward de, xliii, 459 

Stoic, The Old, xlii, 11 57 

Stoicism, Epictetus on true, ii, 14S 
(78); Milton's Comus on, iv, 65; 
Montaigne on, xlviii, 401-2; Soc- 
rates on, ii, 75-6 



GENERAL INDEX 



407 



Stoics, Browne on the, ili, 320; on 
crimes, ix, 333 note; on death, iii, 
10; Hume on the, xxxvii, 337; 
Hume on doctrine of the, 389-90; 
Milton on philosophy of, iv, 407; 
on necessity, iii, 285; Pascal on 
the, xlviii, 120-1, 122 (360), 157 
(465); on riches, ix, 138; on sui- 
cide, 308 (44) (see also Aurelius, 
Marcus, and Epictetus) 

Stokes, Whitley, translator of Da 
Derga's Hostei,, xlix, 209 

Stoksely, Bishop of London, xxxvi, 

IIO-II 

Stone Age, as pictured by ^schylus, 

viii, 171 note 29 
Stonehenge, Burke on, xxiv, 68; 

Emerson on, v, 473-7 
Stones, knowledge of, necessary to 

art, xxxix, 270; transportation of, 

by ice, xxx, 241; transported by 

trees across water, xxix, 486-7 
Storer, John, i, 251, 254 
Stories, compared with poems, xxvii, 

351; practise of telling, xvii, i 
Stork and Fox, fable of, xvii, 17 
Storks, Pope on, xl, 436 
Storks, The, story of, xvii, 329-34 
Storms, on land and at sea, xxix, 

528-9 
Storrs, Robert, on puerperal fever, 

xxxviii, 266, 267 
Stoves, in Elizabethan England, 

XXXV, 310; open, invented by 

Franklin, i, 116 
Strabo, on English tin, xxxv, 338; 

on hounds, 369; on prodigies pre- 
ceding Caesar's death, xii, 326; 

on studdery of Pella, xxxv, 346; 

on tides, xxx, 293-4; on torrid 

zone, xxxix, 112 
Strafford, Bagehot on trial of, xxviii, 

183-4; Charles I on, v, 400 
Stranger's House, in New Atlantis, 

iii» 157 
Strangers, Emerson on, v, 109-10; 

liberties of, in Massachusetts, 

xliii, 83-4 
Strathallan's Lament, vi, 296-7 
Stratified Rocks, Lyell on, xxxviii, 

415-16 
Stratius, Homer on, xxii, 45 
Stratonice, in Poi^yeucte, xxvi, 75- 

8, 86, 91-5 
Strauchius, Chronology of, xxxvii, 

167-8 
Straw, Jack, xxxv, 63, 65, 70, 73, 

74, 77; Chaucer on, xl, 50; death 

of, xxxv, 82 
Strawberry, cultivation of the, xi, 

54-5 
Stream, Confucius on the, xliv, 29 

(16) 
Stream of Life, The, xlii, 11 65-6 
Street-lamps, improved by Franklin, 

if 125 



Streets, expense of maintaining, x, 
477; Franklin on cleanliness of, 
i, 124, 128 
Strength, Cicero on, ix, 57; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, II (16), 20 (10), 
46 {27), 50 (35), 60 (8); David 
on, xli, 508-9; from misfortunes, 
V, 102-3; Nashe on, xl, 266; as a 
cause of the sublime, xxiv, 57-9; 
what is, without wisdom, iv, 420 
Strength, in Prometheus Bound, 

viii, 156-9 
Strenuousness, Mohammed on, xlv, 

991 
Stricca, Dante on, xx, 124 
Strong, the battle is not to the, xliv, 

351 (11) 
Strophades, abode of the Harpies, 

xiii, 138 
Strophius of Phocis, Clytemnestra 

and, viii, 36; Orestes and, 98-9 
Stroza^ on hounds, xxxv, 369-70 
Strozzi, Fra Alessio, xxxi, 33 
Strozzi, Bernardo degli, xxxi, 103 

note 2 
Strozzi, Filippo, xxxi, 81 note i, 

118 note 3, 199 note 2 
Strozzi, Leone, xxxi, 328 note 
Strozzi, Piero, xxxi, 303-4 note i, 

348,^ 409 note I 
Strozzi, Prior degli, xxxi, 372 
Struggle for Existence, xi, 76-92; 

Tennyson on, xlii, 1058 
Struggle, alone pleases, xlviii, 51 

(135) 
Strutt, Mill on, xxv, 54, 79; in 

Parliament, 126 
Struve, theory of, xxx, 335 
Strymonius, Virgil on, xiii, 340 
Stuart, Lady Arabella, xv, 386 
Stuart, Charles Edward, Burns on 
birthday of, vi, 306; supposed 
lament of, 322 (see also He's 
Ower the Hills, Wha'll Be 
King but Charlie, Charlie Is 
My Darling) 
Stuart, Lady Jane, xxv, 8 
Stuart, Sir John, and James Mill, 

xxv, 8 
Stuart, Robert, xlii, 1208, 1213, 

1220 
Stuarts, Burns on the, vi, 279, 290 
Stubbornness, man's worst ill, viii, 
281; Locke on, xxxvii, 64, 65, 89; 
Sophocles on, viii, 257, 265 
Stucco, Lady, in School for Scan- 
dal, xviii, 131 
Student, Chaucer's, xl, 19 
Students, Carlyle's advice to, xxv, 
377-9; in Faust, xix, 37; soldiers 
and, Don Quixote on, xiv, 393-8; 
in Utopia, xxxvi, 192, 194, 206 
Studies, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

128-9 
Studiousness, Bagehot on, xxviii, 
182 



408 



GENERAL INDEX 



Study, Burke on methods of, xxiv, 
7-8; Burke on object of, 48; of 
children, xxxvii, 83, 137-8, 149- 
52; Confucius on, xliv, 26 (12), 

27 (17); ECCLESIASTES On, 354 

(12); Epictetus on, ii, 170 (145); 
hours for, iii, 102; Locke on list- 
lessness in, xxxvii, 1 14-19; Mil- 
ton's course of, iii, 251-6; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 9; Montaigne on 
aim of, 38-9; Montaigne on exes- 
sive, 55-6; pleasures of, iv, 37, 
39; Pliny's method of, ix, 200, 
316-18; thought and, Confucius 
on, xliv, 8 (15), 55 (30); Tzu- 
hsia on, 66 (7) 

Stufa, Pandolfo della, xxxi, 429 
note 

Stufa, Prinzivalle della, xxxi, 31 
and note 3 

Stukeley, on Stonehenge, v, 476-7 

Stupidity, town of, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 254, 255 

Stussi, in Wii«helm Tell, xxvi, 

^ 453-5» 458-9 

Stygian Lake, Dante on the, xx, 

32 

Style, Pascal's rules of, xlviii, 12- 
17, 20-2 

Styx, Aristophanes on the, viii, 433; 
Dante on the, xx, 62; Milton on 
the, iv, 125; oaths by the, xiii, 
424; xxii, 76; xxvi, 168; Socrates 
on, ii, 109-10; Virgil on the, xiii, 
226, 300 

Subhadda, xlv, 654-8 

Subject States, arms in, xxxvi, 72; 
Bacon on, iii, 80-1; factions in, 
xxxvi, 72-3; Machiavelli on, 8-12, 
18-19; More on, 168-9 

Subjection, Kempis on, vii, 221 

Subjects, single men not best, iii, 
22 

Sublime and Beautiful, Burke's, 
xxiv, 7-148; remarks on, 28 

Sublimity, in building, xxiv, 66-7; 
Burke on source of, 36, 76; Burke 
on tests of, 76; color as source 
of, 72; compared with the beauti- 
ful, 106-7; defined, 46; difficulty 
as a source of, 68; feeling as 
source of, 76; heightened by the 
grotesque, xxxix, 366-7; infinity a 
source of, xxiv, 64-5; light and 
darkness as sources 01, 70-1, 120-5; 
littleness as cause of, 64; magnifi- 
cence a source of, 68-70; passion 
caused by, 51; physical causes of, 
108-25; pleasure in contemplating, 
46; power a cause of, 57-62; 
privation a source of, 63; smells 
and tastes as sources of, 75-6; 
sound as source of, 72-4, 11 7- 19; 
succession and uniformity causes 
of J 65-6, 117-20; terror the first 
principle of, 51-2; ugliness and, 



102; vastness a cause of, 63-4, 
115-16; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 351 

Submarine Changes, Lyell on, 
xxxviii, 414, 415, 417 

Submarines, in New Atlantis, iii, 
188 

Submission, Kempis on, vii, 250-1; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 97 (268-70) 

Subscriptions, Franklin's advice on 
getting, i, 123-4 

Subsidence, areas of, as shown by 
coral reefs, xxix, 505-6; Lyell on, 
xxxviii, 423, 428-9, 431, 433-4; 
rate of, xxix, 507 

Subsidies (see Bounties) 

Subsistence, relation of, to popula- 
tion, X, 84 (see Food-Supply) 

Substance, son of Ens, iv, 22-23 

Subterranean Changes, Lyell on, 
xxxviii, 414-18 

Subterranean Movements, Lyell on, 
xxxviii, 428-30 

Subtle, in the Alchemist, with 
Face, xlvii, 521-8; with Dapper, 
528, 529-35» 576-7; with Dapper 
as Priest of Fairy, 582-5, 622, 
623-5; with Drugger, 535-9» 564- 
7; with Mammon, 539*40, 547-55; 
in plot against Mammon, 559; 
finds Mammon with Dol, 604-7; 
with Kastril and Dame Pliant, 
591-4; quarrel with Face over 
Pliant, 594-5; dealings with Puri- 
tans, 560-3, 567-8, 568-73, 574-5, 
576, 611, 612-13; plot against 
Surly as the Don, 595-602; on 
Surly and Pliant, 607; denounced 
by Surly, 608-9; promises coming 
of Count, 610; renews claims to 
Pliant, 613; hears Lovewit's re- 
turn, 613-14; his plot with Dol, 
626-7; betrayed by Face, 627-9 

Subtlety, Raleigh on, xxxix, 78 

Success, in business, price of, v, 47, 
48-9; requires toil, ii, 173 (157); 
a source of power, xxxiv, 375 

Succession, effect of, on the imag- 
ination, xxiv, 65; physical cause 
of sublimity of, 117-20 

Succession Act, Burke on the, xxiv, 
172-3 

Succession-taxes, x, 529 

Such a Parcel of Rogues in a Na- 
tion, vi, 445 

Suckling, Sir John, poems by, xl, 

363-4 
Sucro, death of, xiii, 412 
Sudassana the Great, xlv, 652-3 
Suddenness, disagreeable, xxiv, 103; 

as source of sublime, 73 
Suddhodana, father of Buddha, xlv, 

600, 620 
Sudra, caste of, xlv, 880 
Suevian Sea, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

121 
Suevians, origin of the, xxxiii, 96; 



GENERAL INDEX 



408 



Tacitus on the, 117-22; worship 
of Isis by, 100 

Suffering, alone and with others, 
xlvi, 262; Longfellow on, xlii, 
1 3 18; Shakespeare on, xlvi, 140; 
strength equal to, iv, 1 15-16 

Suffolk, Duke of, xxxix, 77-8 

Suffrage, Lowell on universal, xxviii, 
466-7, 478-80; Mill on democratic, 
XXV, 71-2; woman (see Woman S.) 

Sugar, in ancient times, xxxv, 290; 
cause of pleasantness of, xxiv, 
128-9; composition of, xxx, 174; 
potash and, 54 note; profits of 
cultivation of, x, 166-7 

Suicide, Browne on, iii, 308 (44) ; 
Bunyan on, xv, 120; Epictetus 
on, ii, 122 (17, 18); xlviii, 395; 
Goethe's Faust on, xix, 32-3 ; Ham- 
let on, xlvi, 96, 135; Kant on, 
xxxii, 352-3, 360; Milton on, iv, 
320; Mohammed on, xlv, 984; 
punishment of, in old England, 
xxxv, 385; Shelley on, xviii, 307; 
Socrates on, ii, 49-50; in Utopia, 
xxxvi, 221 

Suicide, On a, vi, 533 

Suicides, in Dante's Hell, xx, 55-9 

Suiones, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 121 

Suitors, Essay on, Bacon's, iii, 126-8 

Sujata, story of, xlv, 627-9 

Suleyman (see Solomon) 

Sulivan, Capt., on Falkland Islands, 
xxix, 203, 205, 206, 207 

Sully, Burke on, xxiv, 196 

Sulphindigotic Acid, xxx, 83 note 

Sulpicius, Caius, in Catiline con- 
spiracy, xii, 240 

Sulpicius, Publius, quarrel with 
Pompeius, ix, 7 

Sulpicius, Servius, letter to Cicero, 
ix, 172; letter from Cicero, 175 

Sultan, Pascal on the, xlviii, 37, 48 

(113) 
Sultan's Steward, Story of the, 

xvi, 141-50 
Sultans, death of, concealed, iii, 148 
Sumedha, The Story of, xlv, 591- 

616 
Summer, beauties of, v, 25; Camp- 
bell on, xli, 791; evening in, 493; 
one swallow makes not a, xiv, 104 
Summer, of All-Saints, xlii, 1 360-1 
Summers, William, xxxviii, 167, 169 
Summoner, Chaucer's, xl, 28-9 
Summons, judicial, in Massachu- 
setts, xliii, 73 (21), 74 (25) 
Summum Bonum, Buddhist, xlv, 
729-A6; Pascal on, xlviii, 123 
(361); various ideas of, 32^ 
Sumptuary Laws, Penn on, i, 409- 

410; Smith on, x, 287 
Sun, Addison on the, xl, 410; xlv, 
547; Bunyan's lesson from the, 
XV, 238; Burke on grandeur of 
the, xxiv, 70; Copernicus on mo- 
tion off xxxiXi 57; Dante's fourth 



Heaven, xx, 327; David on the, 
xliv, 166 (4-6); Goethe on the, 
xix, 16; Herodotus on the, xxxiii, 
15-16, 73; human mind compared 
with, ii, 266 (57); Manfred on 
the, xviii, 436-7; Milton on the, 
iv, 16, 152-3, 158, I94» 249, 311; 
Pascal on the, xlviii, 25-6; Raleigh 
on the, xxxix, 113; Raleigh on 
changes in, 112; source of all 
forces, xxx, 220; started in Aries, 
XX, 6 note 5; Tacitus on the, 
xxxiii, 121; tides affected by, xxx, 
289-92, 305 

Sun-dial, invented in Babylon, 
xxxiii, 53 

Sun-spots, Pascal on, xlviii, 40 (91) 

Sun and Wind, fable of, xvii, 35 

Sun, Follow Thy, xl, 292 

Sun of My Soul, Thou Saviour 
Dear, xlv, 579 

Sun-day Hymn, xlv, 584 

Sun-Flower, Ah, xli, 598 

Sunday Laws, Mill on, xxv, 298-0 

Sunderland, Earl of. Peerage Bill 
of, xxvii, 184-5 

Sunrise, lines on, iv, 32; on land 
and sea, xxiii, 13 

Sunset, Thoreau on, xxviii, 437-8; 
Thoreau's allegory of, 434-5 

Superfluities, attitude of Quakers 
toward, i, 319; Kempis on, vii, 
302 (4) ; Penn on taxing, i, 344 
(53). 409-10; Woolman on, 263-4, 

303-4 
Superfluity, of words, vii, 221 
Supernatural Agencies, belief in, 

xxxviii, 406, 4 10- 1 1 
Supernaturalist, in Faust, xix, 182 
Superstition, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

47-8 ^ , 
Superstition, Burke on, xxiv, 307; 

in Burns's Holy Fair, vi, 102-3; 

defined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 355; 

fable on, xvii, 27; in literature, 

xxvii, 234; origin of, xxxiv, 39o; 

piety and, xlviii, 94 (255) ; Pope 

on, xl, 439-40 
Superstition, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 99 
Suplee, Capt., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

411 
Suppiya, xlv, 791 

Supplication, A, by Cowley, xl, 374 
Supplication, A, by Wyatt, xl, 194-5 
Supply, annual, on what dependent, 

X, 5-6 
Supposed Mistress, His, by Jonson, 

xl, 307-8 
Supposed Mistress, Wishes for the. 



xl, 369:71 
Suppurrttion, 



ppurtfiion, causes and prevention 

of, xxxviii, 271-81 
Supremacy Act, More on, xxxvi, 

135-6 
Supreme Court, of United States, 

xliii, 202; appointment of judges, 



410 



GENERAL INDEX 



201 (2); Lincoln on decisions of, 
340-1 ; Marshall on duties of, 222* 

239 

Sura, Attius, Pliny on, ix, 384 

Sura, Licinius, letters to, ix, 271, 
326 

Sureties, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 434 

Surface, Charles, in School for 
Scandal, in love with Maria, xviii, 
113, 114; his bankruptcy, 117, 118, 
121, 122; Rowley on, 123; Sir 
Peter on, 124; Sir Oliver on, 137; 
Sir Oliver plans to try, 138-41; 
Maria on, 142; at home, 147-9 '» 
with Sir Oliver as Premium, 150- 
5; in the picture room, i55-9*» 
with Rowley, 159-60; suspected 
with Lady Teazle, 135-6, 139. 141- 
2, 166, 169-70, 186, 192; at Jo- 
seph's, 169-73; mistakes Sir Oliver 
for Premium, 188-9; reconciled 
with Sir Oliver, 190; reconciled 
to Maria, 19 1-4 

Surface, Joseph, in School for 
Scandal, relations with Lady 
Sneerwell, xviii, 113; calls on 
Lady Sneerwell, 114-22; Sir Peter 
on, 124; on Backbite's epigram, 
128; with Maria at Sneerwell's, 
129, 133-4; with Lady Teazle, 134- 
5: Sir Oliver on, 137; Sir Oliver 
plans to try, 138; Maria and, 142; 
with Lady Teazle, 161-4; with Sir 
Peter, 165-8; with Charles, 169- 
71; denounced by Lady Teazle, 
173-4; visited by Sir Oliver as 
Stanley, 174-8; Lady Sneerwell 
and, 186-7; expels Sir Oliver as 
Stanley, 188-9; denounced by Sir 
Oliver, Peter, and Lady Teazle, 
189-90; accuses Charles with Ladv 
Sneerwell, 191; follows Sneerwell, 
192 

Surface, Sir Oliver, in School for 
Scandal, reported to be coming 
home, xviii, 120-1; his return, 
124; with Rowley, 135-6; with 
Sir Peter, 136-7; plans to try his 
nephews, 138-41; at ^ Charles's 
house, 146-7, 150-5; in picture 
room, 155-9; after the sale, 160- 
i; visits Joseph as Stanley, 174- 
7; mistaken for physician, 182-3; 
with Sir Peter after scandal, 184- 
5 ; returns to Joseph's as himself, 
188-9; denounces Joseph, 189; 
reconciled to Charles, 190-3 

Surgery, antiseptic principle in, 
xxxviii, 271-82; the germ theory 
in, 382, 388-9; papers on, 9-61, 
235-68, 271-82, 382-402; in i6th 
century, 8 

Surly, Pertinax, in The Alchemist, 
with Mammon at Subtle's, xlvii, 
540-3, 546-58; plot against, 559; 
fails to meet Face, 574; as Span- 



IV, 



on. 



155; 
xliv, 

FOR, 



ish don, 574; with Face and Sub- 
tle. 595-8; presented to Dame 
Pliant, 600-1; exposes fraud to 
her, 607-8; denounces Subtle and 
Face, 608-9; with Kastrill, 609-10; 
and Drugger, 610-11; quarrel with 
Kastrill, 61 1-12; returns with Mam- 
mon, 619-20; with officers, 629-32 
Surprise, Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 

259 (i5)» 301 (13) 

Surrey, Earl of, death of, xxxix, 
81; Jonson on, xxvii, 60; poems 
by, xl, 196-8; Sidney on, xxvii, 45 

Surt, the giant, xlix, 315 note 

Surtees, Robert, Barthram's Dirge, 
xli, 788-9 

Survival of the Fittest, term in- 
vented by Spencer, xi, yy (see 
also Natural Selection) 

Susagus, ix, 388 note 2 

Susan, The Reverie of Poor, xli, 
671 

Susanna, friend of Jesus, xliv, 379 

(3) 
Suspicion, Essay on, Bacon's, iii, 

86-7 
Suspicion, simplicity and, 

Webster on, xlvii, 729 
Suspiciousness, Confucius 

50 (33) 
Sutherland, Mr., Prologue 

vi, 396-7^ 

Sutlej, sediment of the, xxxviii, 424 
Suttee, practise of, iii, 103 
Swabians, The Seven, xvii, 216 
Swaflod, the maid, xlix, 344 
Swallonv and Other Birds, fable 

of, xvii, 14 
Swallow, Swallow, O, xlii, 1005 
Swallow, Swinburne on the, xlii, 

1249-51 
Swamps, Thoreau on, xxviii, 423-4 
Swan, Milton on the, iv, 241; Soc- 
rates on death-song of the, ii, 77-8 
Swans, The Six, xvii, 141-5 
SwANS, The Wild, xvii, 283-08 
Swanhild, daughter of Sigurd, xlix, 

376, 444; wedding and slaying of, 

376-8, 444, 447-8, 450; her future 

foretold, 358-9, 408, 410 
Swanwick,^ Anna, translator of Eg- 

MONT, xix, 245 
Swarga, xlv, 840, 872 
Swearing, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 416-17 
Swearing Coxcomb, On a, vi, 534 
Sweden, Freeman on, xxviii, 268; 

geological elevation of, xxxviii, 428 
Swedenborg, Emanuel, Emerson on, 

V, 22y 183, 185; on the English, 

403; the illumination of, 145; on 

truth, 144 
Sweet Afton, vi, 443 
Sweet Disorder, xl, 345-6 
Sweet and Low, xlii, 1002 
Sweet-meats, Locke on, xxxvii, 22 
Sweet Tibbie Dunbar, vi, 364 



GENERAL INDEX 



411 



Sweet Wili«iam's Ghost, xl, 79-81 

Sweetest Love, I Do Not Go, xl, 
31S-16 

Sweetness, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 211- 
12; nature of, xxiv, 127-9; relax- 
ing, 129.30 

Swift, nest of the, xi, 289-90 

Swift, Jonathan, Essay on, xxviii, 
5-27 

Swift, Jonathan, academy planned 
by, xxiv, 159; Addison and, xxvii, 
187, 191; ambition of, xxviii, 8-9; 
attitude toward inferiors and 
superiors, 7-8; benefactions of, 
15; Berkeley and, xxxvii, 198; 
biographers of, xxviii, 7; bis bit- 
terness, 9-10; as a churchman, 
15-17; On Conversation, xxvii, 
97-105; at court, xxviii, 14; On 
Death of Stella, xxvii, 131-40; 
Directions to Servants, xxxvi, 4; 
Drapier's Letters, xxvia, 17-18; 
Emerson on, v, 450; An English- 
man by all but birth, xxviii, 10; 
Goldsmith on, xli, 518; On 
Good Manners, xxvii, 106-11; 
Gulliver's Travels, xxviii, 19-21; 
Hazlitt on, xxvii, 292; life and 
writings of, 96; xxviii, 6; literary 
style, 10; loneliness and great- 
ness, 26-7; loneliness and suffer- 
ing, 17; on marriage and children, 
18-19; Modest Proposal, 18; mo- 
rality of his times, 9; on new 
and obsolete words, xxxix, 213; 
religion of, xxviii, 15-17; Stella 
and, 22-5, 26; Temple and, 10- 
14; his unhappiness, 21-2; Van- 
essa and, 25-6; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 
1 51-2, 155; To A Young Poet, 
xxvii, 112-30; remarks on Young 
Poet, 1, 55 

Swimbladder, Darwin on the, xi, 
195-6 

Swimming, Locke on, xxxvii, 14 

Swinburne, Algernon C., poems by, 
xlii, 1247-57 

Swine, abominated in Egypt, xxxiii, 
28-9 

Swineherd, The, story of, xvii, 
246-50 

Swine-pox, xxxviii, 207 

Swiss, in France, xxxvi, 49; Gold- 
smith on the, xli, 537-8; in Italy, 
xxxvi, 47; Machiavelli on the, 43; 
Pascal on the, xlviii, 109 (305) 

Swiss Cantons, ancient league of, 
xxvi, 391 note 

Swiss Confederation, Freeman on, 
xxviii, 270-2 

wiss Republic, Bacon on, iii, 37 
wiss Soldiers, Machiavelli on, xxvi, 
89 

Switzerland, connection with the 
German Empire, xxvi, 408-9; first 



settlement of, 407-8; Goldsmith 
on, xli, 537-8; taxes in, x, 522-3 
Switzerland and England, xli, 691 
Sybaris, death of, xiii, 407 
Sybil, in Shoemaker's Holiday, 
xlvii, 455-6, 462-4, 482, 488-9, 
492, 494, 496 
Sycophants, bites of, xxxix, 59 
Sycorax, the witch, xlvi, 389-90 
Sydenham, Locke and, xxxvii, 4 
Sydney, Australia, Darwin on, xxix, 

455-6 

Sykes, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

359, 380, 383, 422; Haskell on, 

382 

Sykes, John, i, 194, 196, 198, 236 

Sylla, Faustus, Cicero on, xii, 249 

Sylla, Lucius Cornelius, Burke on 

confiscations of, xxiv, 263-4; Caesar 

and, xii, 274, 277; Caesar on, iii, 

43; called Felix, 106; Dryden on, 

xiii, 16; ignorance of, xxvii, 24; 

name of, xii, 162; Pompey and, 

iii, 70; the tower of Archelaus 

and,^ XXXV, 336 

Syllogism, Bacon on the, xxxix, 139- 

40; Hobbes on meaning of, xxxiv, 

340; Mill's theory of the, xxv, 

118; Montaigne on the, xxxii, 64 

Sylvander to Clarinda, vi, 309 

Sylvester, follower of St. Francis, 

XX, 333 note 19 
Sylvester, Joshua, Love's Omni- 
presence, xl, 322 
Sylvester, Pope, and the Lateran, 

XX, 82 note 10 
Symbols, Epictetus on, ii, 172 (154); 
expression by, v, 173; mistaken 
use of, 184-5; universal use of, 
174-5, 182 
Syme, John, Compliments of, vi, 

548 
Symeon Niger, xliv, 457 (i), 463 

(14) 
Symmachus, prefect of Rome, vii, 80 
Symmetry, Pascal on, xlviii, 15 (28) 
Symonds, J. Addington, translator 

of Cellini, xxxi 
Symonds, Thomas, xliii, 180 
Sympathy, Bacon on, iii, 72; Browne 
on, 332; Burke on, xxiv, 40-4; 
Emerson on false, v, 81-2; ex- 
cessive, Emerson on, 217; natural 
to man, xxxiv, 279; pleasure in, 
xxxix, 295 
Synagogue, Pascal on the, xlviii, 302 

(851), 304 (852) 
Syncope, Pare on, xxxviii, 57 
Syndercomb, Hugo on, xxxix, 400 
Synods (see Councils) 
Syphax, in Cato, xxvii, 198, 200, 

20ij 202-3 
Syphogrants, officers in Utopia, 

xxxvi, 187, 189, 192, 196, 198 
Syracuse, expedition against, xii, 

125-8, 130, 131 



412 



GENERAL INDEX 



Syria, Raleigh on, xxxix, 74; Se- 

sostris in, xxxiii, 51 
Syrians, circumcision among ancient, 

xxxiii, 51 
Syrinx, and Pan, xl, ^86; references 
to, iv, 46, 380; Webster on, xlvii, 
758 
Systematic Affinity, defined, xi, 307 
Systems, Voltaire on, xxxix, 395 
Systole and Diastole, of arteries, 
xxxviii, 68-9, 71, 84-5; of the 
heart, 79, 82-3, 84-5 
Tabernacle, references to the, iv, 

351-2; xliv, 444 
Tabitha xliv, 450 (36-42) 
Table, Mohammed's chapter on the, 

xlv, 1008-21 
Tabor, the, xx, 91 note 
Tabus, xlix, 210 
Tacca,^ Giovan Francesco della, 

xxxi, 236-7 
Tacca, Giovan Piero della, xxxi, 40 
Tacco, Ghino di, xx, 168 note 2 
Tachompso, island of, xxxiii, 18 
Tacitus, Cornelius, on benefits, 
xlviii, 29 note; celebrity of, ix, 
362; his silence on Christ, xlviii, 
278 ,(787);^ funeral orator of 
Verginius, ix, 222\ Germany, 
xxxiii, 95-123; remarks on Ger- 
many of, 1, 20; life and works, 
xxxiii, 94; on miracles of Vespa- 
sian, xxxvii, 407-8; Pliny's letters 
to, ix, 200, 214, 298, 302, 330 
Tact, Ruskin on, xxviii, 116 
Taddeo, Dante on, xx, 338 note 21 
Tadino, Alessandro, xxi, 478, 488; 
in plague of San Carlo, 523-4, 

^529. 553-4 
Tagarasikkhi, xlv, 691 
Taghut, xlv, 9S6 note 16 
Tagua-tagua, Lake, xxix, 282 
Tagus, in the -Eneid, xiii, 311, 413 
Tahattawans, the sachem, xliii, 153-4 
Tahiti, Darwin on, xxix, 426-40 
Tahitians, Darwin on the, xxviii, 422 
Tai-po, xliv, 25 (i) note 
Taillefer at Hastings, xxviii, 71 
Tailor, Reply to a, vi, 239-41 
Tailor, Story Told by the, xvi, 

158-71 
Tailor, The Valiant Little, xvii, 

97-104 
Tails, use and development of, xi, 

206-7 
Taine, Hippolyte Adolphe, life 
and works, xxxix, 433 note; 
Introduction to English Litera- 
ture, 433-62; remarks on Intro- 
duction of, 1, 56-7 
Take-heed, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 251 
Take. O Take, xl, 272-3 
Tale-bearers, Mrs., Candour on, xviii, 

117 
Talent, character contrasted with, v, 



165-6; differences of, due to divi- 
sion of labor, x, 21-2; duty of 
developing, xxxii, 353-4. 361; 
genius contrasted with, v, 149, 
172; not good in itself, xxxii, 
2i2z\ reason brilliantly expressed, 
130 

Tales, remarks on, xvii, 2 

Talib, son of Sahl, xvi, 310-11, 312- 

Taliessin, Celtic bard, xxxii, 174; 

reference to, xl, 471 
Talk of Him That's Far Away, 

vi, 319 
Talkative, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 79-89 
Talkativeness, excessive, ii, 182 (5); 

vii, 221-2; Shakespeare's advice 

against, xlvi, 102 
Talkers, Bacon on, iii, 19; Confucius 

on, xliv, 47 (5) 
Talleyrand, on necessity, v, 479 
Talmud, the, iii, 44 note; Pascal on 

the, xlviii, 216 
Tam the Chapman, Lines on, vi, 

63 
Tam Glen, vi, 366-7 
Tam o' Shanter, vi, 411-18 
Tam Samson's Elegy, vi, 254-7 
Tamahamaha, king of Sandwich 

Islands, xxiii, 151 
Tamar, Pascal on story of, xlviii, 

267 (743) 
Tamas, xlv, 864, 873, 875, 878, 879, 

880 
Tamerlane, Bacon on, iii, 24; Baja- 

zet and, xxxix, 103 
Tanabuso, bravo in The Betrothed, 

xxi, 335 
Tanais, death of, xiii, 413 
Tanagra, Landor on, xli, 924 
Tancarville, Earl of, at Caen, xxxv, 

7, 11-14; at Poitiers, 37, 51, 57 
Tang, xliv, 42 note 8, 68 (i) note 
Tannahill, Robert, poems by, xli, 

608-9 
Tansillo, Luigi, quoted, xiv, 331 
Tan-tai Mieh-ming, xliv, 20 (12) 
Tantalus, Cervantes on, xiv, 112; 

Homer on, xxii, 167; Milton on, 

iv, 126; Webster on, xlvii, 723 
Tanusius, xii, 293 note 
Tapacolo, Darwin on the, xxix, 288 
Tapalguen, Sierra, xxix, 128-9 
Taprobane, Greek name of Ceylon, 

xxxv, 239 note 
Tapwell, in New Way to Pay Old 

Debts, xlvii, 819-23, 876-9 
Tarantula, Harrison on the, xxxv, 

364 
Taratan, herald in New Atlantis, 

iii, 174 
Tarbolton Lasses, vi, 24 
Tarchon, Tuscan chief, xiii, 289, 

292; ally of ^neas, 331-2, 336; 

in battle, 387-8 



GENERAL INDEX 



413 



Tarentum, Fabius at, ix, 49 

Targhetta, Miliano, xxxi, 189 

Tariff (see Duties) 

Tarlatti, Ciacco de', xx, 168 note 3 

Tarn, Mount, Darwin on, xxix, 250-1 

Tarquin, on his friends, ix, 27; 
reference to, xlvi, 323 

Tarquinius Superbus, attempts to re- 
turn to Rome, xii, 153-4 

Tarquins, Virgil on the, xiii, 239 

Tarquitus, death of, xiii, 345 

Tartars, raids of, iv, 305 

Tartarus, Milton on, iv, 208; Socra- 
tes's description of, ii, 108-9, no; 
Virgil on, xiii, 229, 230-2 

Tartrate of Lime, fermentation of, 
xxxviii, 332-40 

Tartuffe, Moliere's, xxvi, 189-284; 
editorial remarks on, 188; Goethe 
on, xxxii, 129-30; Hugo on, xxxix, 
367* 374-5 

Tartuffe, in Tartuffe, discussed by 
Mme. Pernelle and others, xxvi, 
I9I-3* 195; relations with Orgon, 
i97» 199-200; discussed by Orgon 
and Cleante, 201-5; chosen by Or- 
gon for Mariane's husband, 208- 
17; sent for, by Elmire, 233; with 
Dorine, 234-5; with Elmire, 236- 
41; denounced by Damis, 243; 
with Orgon, 243-50; with Cleante, 
250-2; led on by Elmire, 258-63; 
caught by Orgon, 264; refuses to 
leave house, 265; sends Mr. Loyal 
to claim property, 273-7; the box 
of Argas and, 266-7, 279; comes 
to arrest Orgon, 280-2; himself 
arrested, 282-3 

Tar-water, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 198 

Tasks, Locke on, xxxvii, 60 

Tasmania, Darwin on, xxix, 471 

Tasso, Battista del, xxxi, 25-6, 28, 
360 note 5 

Tasso, Torquato, Dryden on, xiii, 
13. 24, 25, 27, 34, 44; a madman, 
xxvii, 374; on philosophy, xxxii, 

I 34-5; on poets, xxvii, 374; Sainte- 
Beuve on, xxxii, 137; Scuderi on, 
xxxix, 380; Shelley on, xxvii, 354; 
the sonnet and, xli, 697; Spenser 
on, xxxix, 65 

Taste, Essay on, Burke*s, xxiv, 11- 
26 

Taste, The Standard of, Hume's, 
xxvii, 215-34 

Paste, Burke on standards of, xxiv, 
1 1 -12; Burke on study of, 9; con- 
stituents of, 22-3; definition of, 
12-13; delicacy of, xxvii, 221-4; 
differences of, due to organs,^ 221; 
differences of, due to particular 
humors, 230-1; differences due to 
age or country, 231-4; differences 
of, judged by degree of pleasure, 
xxiv, 21-2; reason of so-called dif- 
ferences of, 18-21; Emerson on 



good, V, 218; habits affect sense 
of, xxiv, 15-16; of the imagina- 
tion, 16-18; improved by practice, 
xxvii, 224-5; not a separate fac- 
ulty, xxiv, 25-6; Poe on, xxviii, 
388; in poetry, Hugo on, xxxix, 
404-5; possibility of determining 
a standard of, xxvii, 229-30; prej- 
udice and, 22^-7% as matter of rea- 
son, 227-S; Reynolds on, xxxix, 
282, 305; Schiller on cultivation 
of, xxxii, 248-52, 269-70, 282-3, 
287-91, 312-13; sense of, Burke on, 
xxiv, 127-8; sense of, same in all 
men, 14-15; of the senses, 13-16; 
for sensible objects and in the 
passions, 22 ; as matter of the 
understanding, 22-6; variety of, 
xxvii, 215-16; want of, its cause, 
xxiv, 23; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 
338, 348-51 
Tastes, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 210-12, 
219; as sources of the sublime, 
xxiv, 75-6 
Taste-that-which-is-good, the cook, 

XV, 267 
Tathagata, a name of Buddha, xlv, 

647 note 
Tatti, Giocopo, xxxi, 156 note 2 
Taulchinne, the juggler, xlix, 247 
Taureas, and Alcibiades, xii, 124^ 
Taurus, commander for Octavius, 

xii, 386 
Taurus, the sign, reference to, iv, 

109 
Taxation, equality of, x, 498-9; gen- 
eral rules of, 498-501 ; heavy, un- 
fits for empire, iii, 78-9; popular 
attitude toward, v, 258; without 
representation, xliii, 157 (3) 
Taxes, on capital, x, 528-34; capita- 
tion, 538-40; on commerce, iii, 54; 
on consumption, x, 541-73; direct, 
apportionment of, xliii, 193 (3), 
198 (4); duties and, x, 361; farm- 
ing of, 568-9; on house rent, 510- 
18; on interest of money, 519-22; 
on luxuries, 542-5. 559-64; on lux- 
uries, payment of, 499 (3) ; on 
luxuries, Penn on, 1, 344 (§3). 
409-10; national, under the Con- 
lederation, xliii, 172; national, 
under Constitution, 196 (8), 198 
(5); on necessaries, x, 542, 544- 
7. 572-3; on necessaries, as re- 
quiring duties on foreign goods, 
361-3; on newspapers, Wordsworth 
on, V, 336; on produce of land, 
X, 508-10; on profits, 518; on rent 
of land, 501-8; on rent, payment 
of, 499 (3); source of, 56; on 
stimulants, Mill on, xxv, 309-10; 
on transfers of property, x, 528- 
34; on wages, 534-8; for war, 
Quakers on, i, 225-8 
Taylor, Dr., of Norwich, vi, 100 
Taylor, Father, Dana on, xxiii, 117 



414 



GENERAL INDEX 



Taylor, Jeremy, Emerson on, xlii, 
1300; Wordsworth on, xxxix, 

323-4 
Taylor, Thomas, Emerson on, v, 483 
Taylor, Mrs., and J. S. Mill, xxv, 
4; Mill on, 120-4, 148, 154-9; 
death of, 161 
Taylor, P. A., Mill on, xxv, 190 note 
Taylor, W., on fancy and imagina- 
tion, xxxix, 316 
Te Deum Laudamus, xlv, 558 
Tea, Burke on taste for, xxiv, 16 
Teachers, Channing on importance 
of, xxviii, 371, 372; Confucius on, 
xliv, 8 (11); Locke on, xxxvii, 
73-85, 137, 149-52, 164, 179; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 35-6; need of 
personal, xxviii, 32-8; paid, Soc- 
rates on, ii, 5-6; pay and consid- 
eration of, X, 141-3; qualities 
needed by, ii, 157 (108), 162 
(121); sacred and literary, v, 148 
Teaching, Burke on method of, xxiv, 
12-13; Confucius on, xliv, 22 (8); 
Pope on methods of, i, 19 (see 
also Education) 
Tear-Drop, The, vi, 545 
Tears, Byron on, xli, 810; De Quin- 
cey's Lady of, xxvii, 338-9; false, 
true \\\.y move, xiii, 108; Hunt 
on, xxvii, 299; Laertes on, xlvi, 
179 
Tears, Idle Tears, xlii, 1002 
Teazle, Lady, in School for Scan- 
dal, marriage with Sir Peter, xviii, 
122-3; scene with Sir Peter, 125- 
8; at Lady Sneerwell's, 129-33; 
Joseph Surface and, 134-5, 162-4, 
169; suspected with Charles Sur- 
face, 135-6, i39» 141-2, 166, 169- 
70, 186, 192; reconcilement and 
new quarrel with Sir Peter, 143- 
s; caught behind screen, 172-4; at 
Joseph Surface's after reconcile- 
ment to husband, 189-93; epilogue 
spoken by, 195 
Teazle, Sir Peter, in School for 
Scandal, guardian of Surface 
brothers, xviii, 112; on Lady 
Teazle, 122-3; with Rowley, 123- 
5; scene with Lady Teazle, 125-8; 
at Sneerwell's, 130-3; with Sir 
Oliver, 136-7; his plan to make 
trial of Charles Surface, 139-41; 
with Maria, 142; reconcilement 
and new quarrel with Lady Teazle, 
143-5; at Joseph Surface's house, 
165-9, 171-4; at home after the 
scandal, 183-6; at Joseph Surface's, 
189-93 
Tedaldi, Lionardo, xxxi, 350, 352-3 
Tedmur, inscription of, xvi, 334-5 
Teeth, and hair, related, xi, 30, 156 
Tegan, mantle of, xxxii, 152 
Tegetmeier, on bees, xi, 287 
Tegghiaio, in Dante's Hell, xx, 27-8 
Teiresias, in Antigone, viii, 273-7; 



in the Bacch^, 355-7, 359-63; 

Homer on, xxii, 149, 154-5; in 

(Edipus the King, viii, 207-11 

Telauges, and Socrates, ii, 254 (66) 

Teleclides, on Pericles, xii, 39, 55 

Telegraph, Helmholtz on the, xxx, 

215-17 
Telemachus, in the Odyssey, roused 
to action by Pallas, xxii, 12-17; 
rebukes Penelope, 18; with the 
suitors, 19-20; complains of suit- 
ors in assembly, 23-6; asks for 
ship to go to Pylos, 27-8; coun- 
selled by Pallas, 29-30; prepares 
for sailing, 31-2; sails, 33; with 
Nestor at Pylos, 34-47; with 
Menelaus at Sparta, 48-64; plotted 
against by the suitors, 65-6, 68-9, 
70; warned by Athene to return 
home, 208-9; departs with gifts, 
209-13; takes ship at Pylos, 213- 
16; his landing in Ithaca, 221-3; 
at Eumaeus's hut, 224-8; recog' 
nizes Ulysses, 229-30; in plan to 
destroy the suitors, 230-2; hears 
return of his enemies, 236-7; re- 
turns to mother, 238-9; relates 
what he had heard, 241-2; receives 
Eumaeus and Ulysses, 246-7; re- 
bukes Antinous, 248-9; the sneeze 
of, 252; warned by Eumaeus, 254; 
protects Ulysses in fight with Irus, 
256-7; rebuked by Penelope, 261; 
advises suitors to retire, 266; re- 
moves arms from hall, 267-8; goes 
to assembly-place, 287-8; protects 
Ulysses from the wooers, 291-2: 
replies to Agelaus, 293; advised 
to expel Ulysses, 294; with the 
bow of Ulysses, 297-8; orders 
Penelope away, 304; gives Ulysses 
the bow, 305; with Ulysses against 
the suitors, 309-17; hangs faithless 
servants, 319; in meeting of father 
and mother, 323-4; in final fight, 
344-5; Tennyson on, xlii, 1008 
Telemus, the soothsayer, xxii, 133 
Teleology, Kant on, xxxii, 567 note 
Telescopes, Newton on, xxxiv, 126-7 
Tell, Walter, in Wilhelm Tell, at 
home, goes to Altdorf with father, 
xxvi, 416, 419; at Altdorf, 425- 
36; reunion with mother, 442-3; 
at home again, 467-9 
Tell, Wilhelm, in Wilhelm Tell, 
residence of, xxvi, 374 note; son- 
in-law of Fiirst, 387; takes Baura- 
garten across the lake, 374-5; ar- 
rival at Stauffacher's, 381; at 
home, starts for Altdorf, 416-19; 
at Altdorf with Walter, 425-6; 
neglects to bow to Gessler's cap, 
426-8; at building of the Keep, 
382; conversation with Stauffacher, 
383-4; ordered to shoot apple from 
son's head, 428-34; arrested by 



GENERAL INDEX 



415 



Gessler, 434-6; embarked at Flii- 
elen, 436; escape of, 439-42; in 
wait for Gessler, 450-3; with 
Stussi, 453-4; kills Gessler, 457-8; 
returns home, 469; with Duke 
John, 469-73; in final scene, 474 
Tellheim, Major von, in Minna von 
Barnhelm, changing of his room 
referred to, xxvi, 288-90; an- 
nounces intention to leave inn, 
291 ; with Just, 292-3 ; with Madame 
Marloff, 293-5; destroys note, 295; 
with Just, agrees to keep him, 
295-7; pardon asked by Minna, 
297-8; prepares to leave inn, 298; 
Minna on, 302-3 ; discovered by 
his ring, 307-8; with Minna, takes 
leave of her, 312-15; with Wer- 
ner, 324-9; with Franziska, 329- 
32; scene with Minna, 341-8; hears 
her misfortunes, 348-9; borrows 
money of Werner, 349-51; deter- 
mines to marry Minna, 350-1 ; 
returns to Minna, with Franziska, 

J 151-2; seeks reconciliation, 353-5; 
etter from king, 355-7; offers him- 
self to Minna, 357-61; accuses 
Minna of faithlessness, 361; re- 
fuses Werner's money^ 362; final 
reconciliation, 363-4; wifh Minna's 
uncle, 364-5 ; reconciliation with 
Werner, 365 
Tell-true, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 301 
Tellus, reference to, xx, 2^^ 
Temminck, on classification, xi, 

457 

Temper, Penn on, i, 353 

Temperance, Channing on, xxviii, 
364; Cicero on, ix, 58; common 
notion of, ii, 57-8; Dante's star 
of, XX, 148 note 5; definitions of, i, 
82; Epictetus on show of, ii, 177 
(176); Franklin on, i, 18, 46, 89; 
Franklin's rule of, 83, 84; Greek 

I idea of, xxv, 36; of heroism, v, 130; 

i instances of, xx, 239-40; Manzoni 

! on habits of, xxi, 248; Marcus 

' Aurelius on, ii, 198, 2(iZ (39). 

; ^01 (15); Milton on, iii, 211-13; 

i IV, 65-6, 67, 336; necessity of, in 
pleasure, v, 92; Penn on, i, 
345-6; philosopher's reason of, ii, 
75-6; the virtue of prosperity, iii, 

^ ^7 

temperance Ships, Dana on, xxiii, 

^314-15 

Temperature, production of high, 
XXX, III note; why low, on moun- 
tains, 222-3 

'empest. The, xlvi, 377-442; Hunt 
on, xxvii, 309; stage representa- 
tion of the, 328-30 

"emple. Sir William, Swift and, 
xxvii, 96; xxviii, 6, 10-14 



Temples, pagan, Burke on grandeur 
of, xxiv, 66 

Temporal Estate, Luther on the, 
xxxvi, 278-83 

Temporal Happiness, Penn on, i, 
360-1 

Temporary, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 156 

Temptation, Burns on, vi, 586; Kem- 
pis on, vii, 224-6, 259-60, 292-3, 311- 
12; More on, xxxvi, 105; neces- 
sary to virtue, iii, 212-13, 218; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 289 (821); 
Paul, St., on, xlv, 514 (13); 
Rousseau on reasons of, xxxiv, 
286; seek not, iv, 273; supposes 
fallibility, 271; Winthrop on, 
xliii, 103; yielding to, Epictetus 
on, ii, 144 (75); yielding to, 
Kempis on, vii, 219 (2) 

Temptation, In, xlv, 572-3 

Temptations, of the flesh, vii, 191-7; 
of curiosity, 197-9; of pride, 199- 
203 

Temsice, George, xxxvi, 143 

Ten Thousand, Emerson on the, v, 
198; retreat of the, xii, 371 

Tencterians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

114 
Tenderness, in friendship, v, 11 6-1 7 
Tenedos, island of, xiii, 104 
Tenements, Channing on, xxviii, 367 
Teneriffe, identified as mountain of 

Atlas, viii, 168 note 21 
Tennant, James, Epistle to, vi, 

353 
Tennent, Gilbert, Franklin on, i, 

123-4 
Tennyson, Alfred Lord, Arabian 
Nights' influence on, xvi, 16; 
Emerson on, v, 463; Poe on, 
xxviii, 402; poems by, xlii, 997- 
1098; Wordsworth on, v, 483 
Terah, father of Abraham, iv, 15 
Terence, Augustine, St., on, vii, 19; 
on compliance, ix, 39, 40; in 
Dante's Limbo, xx, 238; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 92-94; quotations 
from, xlviii, 123 note 11; Scipio 
and, xiii, 70 
Terentia, wife of Cicero, ix, 5; in 
Catiline conspiracy, xii, 241; Clo- 
dius and, 249-50; divorce of, ix, 
82; xii, 261; letter to, ix, 91 
Teresa, St., On the Book and 

Picture of, xl, 372 
Tereus, and Progne, xx, 181 note 4 
Termagant, xlvi, 139 note 3 
Tern, the snow-white, xxix, 482 
Ternate, Drake at, xxxiii, 22']-2)Q 
Terray, Abbe, interest^ under, x, 96 
Terrier, Sir Tivy, xviii, 145 
Terriers, Harrison on, xxxv, 369 
Territories, under control of Con- 
gress, xliii, 204 



VOL. L — HC (14) 



416 



GENERAL INDEX 



Terror, as a means of authority, 
ix, 349-50; Burke on, xxiv, 42, 
51-2; cause of, 1 10-12; darkness, 
as cause of, 70, 120-3; delight 
caused by, 114; in idea of in- 
finity. 64-5; intermitting sounds, 
as cause of, 73-4; loudness as 
cause of, 72; obscurity, as cause 
off 52-3', idea of power, as cause 
of, 57-62; in privation, 6^; sud- 
denness as cause of, 73; m idea 
of vastness, 63-4, 115 (see also 
Sublimity) 
Terry, Job, Oana on, xxiii, 37 
Tertian Fever, Harvey on, xxxviii. 

Tertiary Deposits, Lyell on, xxxviu, 

425-6 
TertuUian, on Christians, xlriii, 

360; on the church, 314 (890); 

on Esdras, 214 
Tertullus, Comutus, colleague ot 

Pliny, ix, 380 note i ; on Certus, 

358 
Tertullus, the orator, xliv, 484 1-8) 
Teru-tero, DarMk-in on the, xxix, 127 
Testa, C. Trebatius, letters to, ix, 

137. 180 
Testimony, Hobbes on. xxxiv, 415; 

Hume on, xxxvii, 398-9; Moham- 
med on. xlv, 1019-20 
Tethys, references to, iv, 69; viii, 

161 
Tetu, French captain, xxxiii, 192-4, 

195. 196, 199, 201 
TeUel, xxxvi, 295 note 9 
Tcucer, accuser of Alcibiadcs, xii, 

128-9 
Teucer, and Belus, xiii, 97 
Teucrus, \'irgil on, xiii, 135 
Teuthrania, Herodotus on plain* of, 

xxxiii, 9 
Teutonic Literature, Renan on early, 

xxxii. 154 
Teutonic Races, Christianity and, 

xxxii, 179 
Teutons, compared with Slavs in, 

situation, xxriii, 276-7 
Texas, history of, xliii, 309 note 
Thackeray. William Makepjeace, Em« 

erson on, t, 457; End of thjk 

Fu^Y, xiii, 1099; JJ^^ aiid works, 

xxviii. 3-4; Essay on Swift, $-27; 

remarks on Essay, I, 56 
Thais, Alexander and. xJ, 401, 404, 

405; in Dante's Hell, rx, 78 
Thalberg, and the Queen, v, 386 
Thales, in Dante's Limbo, xx. 20; 

on death, xxxii. 27; Lycurgnsand, 

iii, 204; Sidney on, xxvii, 9 
Thames, importance of the. r, 548 
Thammuz, Milton on. iv. loi 
Tliamud, xlv, 902. 916. 929 
Tharoyris, blind, iv, 139; death of, 

xiii. 407 
Thanatopsis, xiii, 1262-4 



Thankfulness, human, ii, 131 (42); 

for virtue, 170 (146) 
Thanksgiving, A Psalm of, xliy, 

»54 

Thanksgiving for a Natiokal Vio 
TOEY, vi, 489 

Thanksgivings, Roman, Cato on, ix, 
158 

Thaqif, tribe of, xlv, 930 note 

Thargelia, the courtesan, xii, 62 

That's the Lassie o' My Heart, vi, 
578 

Theagenes, Chariclca and, xxvii, 15; 
Sidney on, i^ 

Thcano, the priestess, xii, 131 

Theatre, Hugo on the Greek, xxxix, 
^58-9; Hugo on the modern, 401-2; 
Montaigne on the, xxxii, 727: 
morality and the, xxvii, 356; I ..-■ 
cal on the, xlviii, 11 (11); Swi:: 
on the, xxvii, 128; Voltaire 0:: 
the, xxxiv, 156-8 

Theatrical Representations, Lamb 
on, xxvii, 316-31 

Thebes (Egypt), distance from sea, 
xxxiii, 9; extent of, 12; sacrec 
animals of. 25-6 

Thebes (Grecian), building of, xx, 
133; founders of, xxii, 158; 
Philip of Macedon and, xxxvi, 44; 
Spartan policy toward, 19; the 
war against, viii, 2a6-8 

Thebez, the prophet of. iv, 383 

Theft, Augustine, St., on, \-ii, 27-9; 
Confucius on, xliv, 41 (18); Mo- 
hammed on, xlv. 1012; More on 
causes and punishment of, xxxvi, 
151-63; penalty of, by the Law, 
xliii, 100, 104; punished in second 
circle of Hell, xx, 47; punishment 
of, in old England, xxxv, 385-^ 
387. 389 

Their Gro\-es o' Sweet Myrtle, vi, 

572 
Themes, Locke on, xxxvii, 57-9, 173 
Themis, wSschylus on, viii, 164 note, 
186; goddess of assemblies, xxu, 
24; mother of Prometheus, viii, 
157 note; second prophet at 
Delphi, 115 
Themistocles, accused of treason, xfi, 
26; Aristides and. 81-3, 87, 88-9^ 
106, 107; rebuilds Athens, 22-3; 
is banished, 2>; birth and boy- 
hood of, 5-7; cnaracter of, ~-Z, o- 
10, 21-2; children of, 34-5; ch3- 
dren of, ix, 188; Cicero on, 23-4, 
106; death of, xii, 34; Emerson on. 
V, 275; escapes death by dreaa, 
xii, 32-3; Herodotns and, ix, 107; 
honors conferred on, xii, 21; 
honors to family, 35; loses favsr 
with confederates, 24; at Mara- 
thon, 85; memory of, ix, 53: Mo»- 
taigne on, xxxii, 34; in Penasa 
war, xii, 10-20; proposes dettrvc* 



GENERAL INDEX 



417 



tioo of Greek fleet* 23; proposes 

daipfi, 8; proMJerity, 32; public 
tre&snry aud. &4; at Salamis, 8^- 
90; tLe Serip^ian and, ix, 48; the 
coldaer ajid, iii, 343; incurs dis- 
lair—nre of Sparta, xii, 24; the 
Hatne aad« 33; tomb of, 35; bis 
vaadenqfS, 27^9; Xerxes and, 29- 
31 ; iii, 14^^-9 
Themistocxjs, Life or, Plutarch's, 
xn. 5-35 

TVXMIEL. MXXZIIS* B0NI£ Ma£Y, tI, 
29S-9 

TlMobald, Jolauson on, xjudx, 248- 
249 

TheodljniaenuB, in the Odyssey, yyii, 

«$, 22 J -2, 242, 293-4 

Theooatic Society, Hn^ on, xudx, 

357 

eocritus, on httthandry, xxrii, 72; 

aa iid^UftC DoeC, xsudx, 314; refer- 

eaiee to, jdo, 950 
Tlseodoric, Baeon oq« iii, 236 
Theod0ra% deadi of, xii, 396; high 

priest 01 Abbess, 144-5 
TWodntna, vitii Pooapey's head, xii, 

TiKOfeiics, the stataae of, t, 97 
Tbeoiitoai* flie Meea rian , xii, loi 

TJaeogBU, Safnte-getrre on, xxxii, 
ij6 

TheDlocy, Ba^eliot on modern, xxviii, 
211-12; Carijle on, xxv, 379-80; 
Chamria^ on* xxviii, 342 ; Des- 
cartes cm* X3UU V, 8, 9-10; Exner- 
soa on our* t, 39; false, cure for, 
291; Goetihe 00, xix, 75-6; Hume 
oa« xxzrii. 444, 445; Luther on 
stsid|r of . xxxvi, 341-3; Marlowe 
on* xix, 201-2, 20^; of Middle 
A«es, xxriii, 224; Milton on study 
of, iii, 255; Milton on true, 233; 
Pascal on, xlriii* 4S (us). 4^4^ 
445; popular, E m ers o p on, v, 90- 
i; women asd* xxriii, 154 
l ifO Mi ann r, defined* xxxiv, 397 

TWop han cs, tSsc T4iiiwan, xii. 258 

Tiiro|ihihM» AntocT's steward, xii, 

Tieophrastus, on anger and desire, 
ii, 202 (10): Cicero on. xii, 245; 
on Deaaaades, 205; Huxley on, 
xxTui* 227; MBton on study of. 
iii« 253 notie 29; on morals and 
fikiaic9B» xii, 77-8; Newman on, 
T^xwnu 59', Plutarch on, xii, 218; 
Zalencws and, ix, 155 

Theoponmns, Caesar and, xii, 314- 
15; Epaoras and, ix, 152 

rbeoris, the priestess, xii, 209 

Theory, Btirkc on, xxiv, 8-9, 48-9; 
GoCTbe on, xix, 77; practise and. 
Mill on* xxT, 26; practical man's 
disfroat of, ▼, 57-8; Smith on, 
xxtS, 260-1; test of truth of, xi, 
^19 



Theramenes, pupil of Euripides, viii, 
448; Aristophanes on, 435 

Theramenes, in Ph^dra, xxvi, 225- 
9, 246, 252, 180-3 

There Was a Bokie Lass, vi, 550 

There'll I^exzil be Peace till 
Jamie Comes Hame, vi, 422 

Theresa, St., Pascal on, xlviii, 266 
(499), 308 (868), 319 (917) 

Thermo-electric Batteries, xxx, 228 

Thermodon, Plutarch on, xii, 222- 
223 

Thermometers, freezing-point of, 
xxx, 242 

Thermopylae, Byron on, xii, 834 

Thermus, Cicero on, ix, 84, 252 

Theron, death of. xiii, 337 

Thersites, Epictetus on, ii, 158 
(220); Pliny on, ix, 228 note 8 

Theseus, acts and loves of, xxvi, 
128, 249; the Amazons and. viii, 
242; Ariadne and, xxii, 160; the 
centaurs and, xx, 247 note 7; in 
Epirus, xxvi, 161; in Hades, xiii, 
224; Hercules compared with, r, 
292; Hippolyta and, xiii, 384; 
MachiavelH on, xxxvi, 20-2, 22, 
87; the Minotaur and. xiii, 222; 
XX, 50 note 4; ship of, ii, 45-6; 
in Tartarus, xiii. 232 

Theseus, in Hippolytus, plotted 
against by Aphrodite, viii, 288; 
returns to find wife dead, 320-4; 
dooms Hippolytus, 324-5; scene 
with Hippolytus, 326-33; bears ac- 
cident of Hippolytus, 336-40; hears 
of his innocence, 342-2; at his 
death, 345-8 

Theseus, in Phiedra, his absence re- 
ferred to, xxvi, 225-6; reported 
dead, 137, 240; rumored still alive, 
152; his return, 256, 259-62; hears 
dishonor of Hippolytus, 162- a; 
banishes Hippolytus, 264-8; tells 
Phaedra, 268-9; with Aricia, 277- 
8; becomes suspicious of wrong, 
278-9; learns death of Hippolytus, 
280-2; learns his innocence, 283-5 

Thesmophoria, the, xxxiii, 86 

Thespis, reference to, xxxix, ^69 

Thessalus, accuser of Alcibiades, xii, 
127, 232 

Thest>'lis, reference to, iv, 33 
Thetford, university of, xxxv, 392 

Thetis, Achilles and, v, 96; her 
flight from Chiron, xx, 282; in 
Dante's Limbo, 230 note 20; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 70; Virgil on, xiii, 
244; Zeus and, viii, 282 note 49 
Theudas, xliv, 440 (36) 
Thevet. Andrew, xxxiii, 322, 330, 

337 
Thibault, king of Navarre, xx, 92 

note 3 
Thief, Epictetus on punishment of 
the, ii, 220 (22) 



418 



GENERAL INDEX 



Thief and His Mother, fable of 

the, xvii, 28 
Thierry, in Song of Roland, xlix, 

201, 202-6 
Thierry, Augustin, History of the 

Conquest, xxxii, 180 note; Taine 

on, xxxix, 437 
Thine Am I, My Faithful Fair, 

vi, 506 
Thiodrek, the king, xlix, 422 
Thirlwall, Mill on, xxv, 83, 84 
This is No My Ain Lassie, vi, 575- 
Thisbe, and Pyramus, xx, 257 
Thistles, South American, xxix, 136 
Tho* Cruel Fate Should Bid Us 

Part, vi, 98 
Thoas, in the ^neid, xiii, 341 
Thoas, and Hypsipyle, xx, 77 note 4 
Thomas, the apostle, xliv, 373 (15), 

430 (13) 
Thomas, Gov., Franklin on, i, 109, 

114-15, 116 
Thomas Rymer and the Queen of 

Elfland, xl, 77-9 
Thompson, Capt., at San Diego, 

xxiii, 1 1 4- 1 5 
Thompson, William, Mill on, xxv, 83 
Thomson, C. P., Mill on, xxv, 84 
Thomson, Catherine, Sonnet on, 

iv, 84 
Thomson, James (1700-48), Burns 

on, vi, 187; To Fortune, xl, 454; 

Hazlitt on, xxvii, 292; prayer 

written by, i, 87; quotation from, 

vi, 234; Rule Britannia, xl, 453; 

Wordsworth on his Castle of In- 
dolence, xxxix, 342; Wordsworth 

on Seasons of, 339-42 
Thomson, Address to Shade of, vi, 

443 

Thomson, On Some Commemora- 
tions of, vi, 475-6 

Thomson, James (1834-82), Gifts, 
xlii, 1 195 

Thomson, Dr. James, on chemistry, 
xxv, 17; on freezing-point, xxx, 
243; on regelation of ice, 254; on 
plasticity of ice, 257; on tides, 

307 

Thomson, N. H., translator of The 
Prince, xxxvi, i 

Thomson, Sir William, on age of 
earth, xi, 359, 360; on freezing- 
point, xxx, 243, 244; life and 
work, 262; The Tides, 287-321; 
Wave Theory of Light, 263-86 

Thone, and Helena, iv, 64 

Thonis, the Egyptian, xxxiii, 55 

Thoosa, daughter of Phorcys, xxii, 
II 

Thor, at Utgard, v, 373 

Thora, daughter of Hakon, xlix, 
360, 425 

Thordharson, Jon, xliii, 5 

Thoreau, Henry David, sketch of 
life and works, xxviii, 406; on 



the truth, 293; On Walking, 
407-38 
Thorfinn Karlsefni, xliii, 15-17, 

18, 20-1 
Thorgeir, son of Snorri, xliii, 21 
Thori, the Norseman, xliii, 11, 12 
Thorndike, Herbert, xv, 389 
Thorold,Earl Tresham (seeTresham) 
Thorough, is no word of peace, viii, 

297 
Thorstein, son of Eric the Red, 

xliii, 6, 14 
Thorstein the Swarthy, xliii, 14 
Thorvald, son of Eric the Red, 
xliii, 6; voyage to Vinland, 12- 
14 
Thorvard the Norseman of Gardar 
marries Freydis, daughter of Eric 
the Red, xliii, 6; with Freydis makes 
voyage to Vinland, 17-20 
Thorycion, Aristophanes on, viii, 

429. 430 
Thou Fair Eliza, vi, 441 
Thou Hast Left Me Ever, Jamie, 

vi, 504-5 
Thought, aberrations of, four prin- 
cipal, ii, 295 (19); "act in fancy,'* 
xlv, 813; action and, Carlyle on, 
^xv, 355; Channing on, xxviii, 
333-48, 352-55; Descartes on 
reality of, xxxiv, 29; duty of 
man, xlviii, 59 (146); Hobbes on, 
xxxiv, 325-30, 334» 359-62; Hume 
on limits of, xxxvii, 317-20, 322, 
346; not wisdom, viii, 360; liberty 
of, Mill on, xxv, 218-59, 260; 
liberty of, Milton on, iii, 232-8; 
makes place, vii, 327 (5); man 
born for, xlviii, 417; Pascal on, 
119 (339)» 120 (346-8), 124 (365), 
125 (370); preventing power of, 
95 (259); as product of matter, 
xxxiv, 106-9; Rousseau on, 251-3; 
Schiller on courage of, xxxii, 
243; sensation and, xxxvii, 316; 
Socrates on pure, ii, 54; study 
and, Confucius on, xliv, 8 (15), 
55 (30); swifter than time, xviii, 
324; Walton on sympathy of, xv, 

341 

Thoughtlessness, Buddhist idea of, 
xlv, 703 

Thoughts, Bacon on good, iii, 30; 
Bunyan on good, xv, 150-1; 
chance in, xxxix, 125; character, 
determined by, ii, 229 (16); con- 
nection of, xxxix, 162; defined, 
xxxvii, 317; Emerson on, t, 148, 
i75» 435-6; Emerson on our re- 
jected, 63-4; evil, a prayer 
against, vii, 298; feelings and, 
xxxix, 286-7; Goethe on exchange 
of, 265-6; Marcus Aurelius on 
purity of, ii, 207 (4), 210 (8); 
Penn on government of, i, Z9^- 



GENERAL INDEX 



419 



8; Shakespeare on, xlvi, 102; 
source of, outside of human will, 
V, 138; two at same time impos- 
sible, xlviii, 59 (145); wandering 
of, Byron on, xviii, 440; Brown- 
ing on, 397; wandering, Dante 
on, XX, 164; worldly and heavenly, 
vii, 327 (5, 6) 

Thoughts in a Garden, xl, 386-8 

Thousand and One Nights, xvi 

Thrace, the modern Roumania, 
xxviii, 274; Sesostris in, xxxiii, 
so 

Thrasea, Paetus, Stoic philosopher, 
ix, 196 note; Pliny on, 323, 324 

Thrasiline, in Phii,aster, xlvii, 639- 
49. 663-4, 669-73, 684-5, 700, 702, 
706 

Thraso, Sidney on, xxvii, 29; Thais 
and, XX, 78 note 6 

Thrasybulus, of Stiria, xii, 137; ac- 
cuses Alcibiades, 147 

Thrasymedes, son of Nestor, xxii, 

35» 45, 46 
Three Feathers, story of the, xvii, 

166 
Three Littl,e Men in the Wood, 

xvii, 74-9 
Three Ravens, The, xl, 74 
Three Spinners, The, xvii, 80-2 
Three Warnings, The, xlv, 705-7 
Thrift, Confucius on, xliv, 25 (35) 
Thrush, nests of the, xi, 296; Whit- 
man on the, xlii, 1498 
Thrushbeard King, story of, xvii, 

151-5 
Thucydides, of Alopece, rival of 
Pericles, xii, 48, 54; on Pericles, 

44, 55 
Thule, King of, song of, xix, 1 13-14 
Thumbling, story of, xvii, 132-7 
ThumbIvIng as Journeyman, xvii, 

137-41 
Thumomancy, defined, xxxiv, 397 
Thunder, Beaumont on, xlvii, 653; 

Longfellow on, xlii, 1376 
Thunderstorms, Darwin on, xxix, T2 
Thurloe, Hugo on, xxxix, 399 
Thyestes, feast of, viii, (>^ 
Thymbraean God, Apollo called, xx, 

193 note 
Thymbrus, and Laris, xiii, 340 
Thymoetes, Virgil on, xiii, 104, 331 
Thyn, Captain, xxxiii, 349, 357, 363, 

369, 382 
Thyrsis, and Corydon, iv, 33 
Thyrsus, freedman of Octavius, xii, 

393 
Thyrsus, sacred wand of Bacchus, 

viii, 351 
Phyrza, Elegy on, xii, 805-7 
Tibbie, I Hae Seen the Day, vi, 

20-1 
Fibboos, Emerson on rock, v, 208 
Tiber, river, origin of name, xiii, 

283 



Tiberius, aided by mother, lii, 148; 
caution of, 18; Dante on victories 
of, XX, 310 note 19; death of, iii, 
10; in Germany, xxxiii, 117; men- 
tioned in Luke, xliv, 365 (i); 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 304 {,2^^ ; 
Marco and, iii, 98-9; Milton on, 
iv, 401-2; memoirs of, xxxvi, 3; 
the pictures and, xlvii, 545; Seja- 
nus and, iii, 71 
Ticino, Freeman on, xxviii, 265 
Tickell, on Addison, xxvii, 187 
Ticknor, Elisha, xxviii, 379-80 
Tidal Waves, Kelvin on, xxx, 288-9 
Tidal Harmonic Analyser, xxx, 307- 

10 
Tide Gauge, the, xxx, 303-4 
Tide Predictors, xxx, 310-12 
Tides, ancient knowledge of, xxx, 
293-4; declinational, 305-6; de- 
fined, 287-90; Descartes on, xxxiv, 
37; due to attraction of sun and 
moon, xxx, 289-90, 294-6, 305-6, 
317-19; dynamic action of, 301; 
elastic, 313, 319; equilibrium 
theory of, 298-300; harmonic 
analysis of, 304-10; meteoro- 
logical, 290-2; moon as cause of, 
294-6, 305-6, 317-19; observation 
of, 302-4; prediction of, 310-12; 
spring and neap, 298-9; true solar 
and lunar, how known, 292-3; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, no, 120; 
weather, influenced by, xxx, 313 
Tides, Essay on, Kelvin's, xxx, 

287-321 
Tierny, Dr., xxxviii, 208, 222-3 
Tierra del Fuego, boulders in, xxix, 
264; climate and productions of, 
258-9; Darwin on, 58, 219-46, 
251-8; glaciers of, 262, 240; peat 
in, 304; snow-line in, 261; trees 
in, 303 
Tigellinus, and Burrhus, iii, 62 
Tiger, The, a poem, xii, 597-8 
Tigillinus, death of, xxxii, 14 
Tignoso, Federigo, xx, 204 note 21 
Tigranes, and the Romans, iii, 78 
Tigris, river, in Eden, iv, 265 
Tillotson, Dr., on the real presence, 

xxxvii, 396 
Timaea, Alcibiades and, xii, 132-3 
Timaeus, on plants and man, v, 182; 
Plutarch on, xii, 129; on the 
Pyrrhian War, ix, 105; Timoleon 
and, 107 
Timandra, and Alcibiades, xii, 150, 

151 
Timarete, the priestess, xxxiii, 32 
Time, abolished by the soul, v, 140- 
i; Bacon on, xxxix, 130; brings 
evil and good, xxxvi, 13; cleanses 
all, viii, 126; consists of two days, 
xvi, 18; definitions of, xlviii, 432- 
4; duration of past, xi, 33 5-9» 
359-60; duration of past, Lyell on. 



420 



GENERAL INDEX 



xxx f lB , 406*13; element of. in 
fonaadoo of species, xi, 117; 
eternity and. iii, 1741 Hume on 
idea of, xxxrii, 4^7, 438; the 
greatest innovator, lii, 65; lifter 
of the veil, viii. 131; like a river, 
ii. 2Jt (43); makes manifest the 
righteous, viii. 2x5; the measore 
ox bosiness. iii. 66; measures all 
things, iv. 198; method and. xix. 
73; Milton on, iv, 40-41; num- 
bers motioB; 27; Pascal on, xlviii« 
49 (122^: Pain 00 use of, i« 
333-4: Raleigh on, 3d« jo8, aio; 
among the Romans, ix. 243 note 
4; Shakespeare on, xl. ^8o-i; 
^ower than thoni^ xviii, 524; 
subtle thief of youth, iv, 30; 
tcoches amny a lesson, viii, 190; 
as the test of books, xxxix, 21 S* 
19; unhaidnc ttride of, viii, 3S9 

Time-oerrer, Lord, in Pilcum's 
PaoGiaas, xv, 104 

Timeliness, Bacon on, iii, 67; Penn 
on. i. 354 

Timesileas, Plutarch on, xii, 59 

Timidity, Hippocrates on, xxxviii, 
5; of modem society, v. 80 

Timocreon, on Themistoclea, xii, 

■24-5 
Tiaaioleon. fortune of. iii, 106; Lan- 

dor on* v. 330; Tinuras and. ix, 

107 
Timon, of Athens, xii, ^90-1: Al- 

faaidrt and, 124-5; nusanthropy 

of, ix, 38; tree of, iii, 36 
T ~on, the deacon, xliv, 441 (5) 
1 :j::ion of Phlius, on Zeno, xii, 40 
Timon, teacher of Arthur, xxxix, 

66 
T imoious , in PiLcaiif's PioGaass, 

XT. 47, 224 

Timorous, Mrs., in Pilgrim's P»og- 

KE9a» XT, 186-90 

Timoronsnesa, Lodce oa cure of, 
xxxvii, 104-8 

Tixnotheus, Athenian general, Apol- 
lodortis and, xii, 209; Bacon on, 
iii, 106 

•Imotheos, ■wmicuB at Alexander's 
feast, xJ, 401-6 

Timothy, at Bercea, xliv, 469 (14); 
circnmciskm of, 465 (1-3); xxxvi, 
388-9; at Corinth, xliv, 471 (5); 
tile Corinthians and, xlv, 506 (17). 
527 (i). 528 (19); sent to Mace- 
donia, xUt, 474 (22), 475 (4): St- 
Paul on, xlv. 525 (lo-ii); Penn 
on, i, 404 (163) 

TiaK>xena, wife of Plutarch, xii, 3 

Tia SoLBixa, The Cokstaxt, xvii, 
3i«-i6 

TisnEX-aox, Thz, story of, xvii. 370-6 

Ting. Doke, xKt, 44 d 5) 

Tinker's Scmg, from Jolly Beggaks, 
Ti, 136 



Tinochorus. Darwin on the, xxix. 106 

TiPFLiNG Ballad, A, vi, 479 

Tiquitoc, on Dulcinea. xiv, 542 

Tiradritto, bravo in The Betrothes, 
xxi, 334 

Tirante tht White . xiv, 55, loi 

Tiresias, in Dante's Hell, xx, 84; 
Milton on, iv, 139 

Tiro, freedman of Cicero, ix, 82, 
118; Cicero's letter to, 160; letter 
of Cicero the Younger to, 181; 
letter of Q. Cicero to, 183 

Tiro, Calestnus, letter to, ix, 206 

Tiro, Julius, codicils of, ix, 309 

Tirsan, father of family in Xew At- 
lantis^ iii, 172 

Tirrnthian Groom, Hercules called 
the. xl, 247 

Tisaph ernes, and Alcibiades, xii, 133- 
4. 138 

Tisiphon, wreath of, xlvi, 65 

Ti^''~'"''"\ Dante on, xx, 38; in 
'- Hades, xiii, 230 

Ti>^>?, rnnce, anecdote of, v, 309 

Titania, in Faust, xix, 177 

Titans, Milton on the, iv. 95, 103; 
sons of Okeanus and Earth, viii, 
164 note 14; in Tartarus, xiii, 230- 
i; war of, referred to, viii, 163-4 

Tithes, Darid on, xii, 503: Harrison 
on, XXXV, 274; Hindu doctrine of, 
xlv, 814 

Tithonus, Aurora and. v, 96; xxii, 
71; xl. 2^0; reference to, xx, 181 

Titian, Cellini and, xxxi, 371-2; Hax- 
litt on, xxvii, 293; portraits by, 
286 

Titius, the quzstor, xii, 368, 380 

Titles, Austin on, xii, 545; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, ^83; Pope on^ xl, 446 

Titmouse, habits of the, xi, 188, 289 

Titus, Paul, St., and, xxxri, 380, 
394; Paul, St, on, xlv, 529 (13), 
535 (6-7), 536 (6, 13-15), 537 (i6- 

^24). 543 (18) 

Titus, the Emperor, beautv of, iii, 
112; Jerusalem destroyed by, xx, 
234 note 5, 310; XXXV, 336; xxxviii, 
32; Pope on, xl, 445 

Tityos (see Tityus) 

Tityms, Sidney on, xxvii, 28 

Tityus, Homer on, xxii, 166-7; '^ 
Tartarus, xiii, 2^1 

Tivitivans, Raleigh on the, xxxiii. 

^ 351-2, 387. .^ 

Tmolus, Eunpides on, viii, 366; ref- 
erence to, xii, 845 

ToADEATia, The, vi, 453 

Toads, adders and, xxxv, 364; South 
American, xxix, 109-10 

Tobacco. Burke on taste for, xxiv, 
16; Harrison on use of, xxxv, 
251; introduced into England by 
Drake, xxxiii, 126: profits of cul- 
tivation of, X. 167-8 

Tobbia, the goldsmith, xxxi, 124-51 
127, 130. 132 



GENERAL INDEX 



421 



Totibs, AngMtmc, Sl, on, m^ 196; 
MUton <m« hr, 1S9 

Toccata of GAUCTrft, A, adii, 11 22 

Tocqnerille, M. de. Mill cm bis 
Democracy, xxw, 124-5 

Tololo. Eleaoora (H, xud, 356 note 
i; Ccnbn and, 377. 37*^9. 3^>-A 
399. 404-9. 41 3- IS. 424-5. 4^. 429- 
30, 432'4« 435-^. 438. 443. 452-3 

Toledo, Pictro Alrarez de, xxxi, 142 
note 

Toleration, in ancient Athens, iii, 
204; in ancient nations, xxxrii, 
416-17; Lord Brook on, iii, 2:^^-, 
&srke on, witbont anj belief, xxit, 
298; Hume on^ xxxrii, 429; ^iiU 
on, xxT, ^; HjH on popnlar ideas 
oi, 210; MDton on, iii, 240-1; Pas- 
cal on, xhriii, 34^50; in Utofna, 
xxxri, 239-40 

ToUeme la Feintcs, xxxv, 124 

Tollendal, Lally, letter on October 
Sixth, xxir, 222 note 

ToDs, Smith on, x, 475-7 

Tobmdes, Athenian general, xii, 58, 

59 
Tolosa, Ladj, in Dox Quixorr, xir, 

3« 
Tolnmnius, in the M'stid, xm, 376, 

404, 411 
Tom Bowuxg, xli, 514-15 
Tomb, The Bishop Obdebs His, xlH, 

1117 
Tombs ix WEsnaxsrot Abbey, xl, 

Tcr-MOBBow, by CoIUns, xU, 607 
To-morrow, Omar Khayyam 00, xH, 

973; sees undone what h ap pen s 

not to^y, xix, 14; Shakespeare 

on, xlvi, 370 
Tomyris, Cyrus and, xx, 1 94 
Tonio, in The Betxothe]>, xxi, 95- 

8, 113-15, 118, 120-a, 130, 191,568 
Tonson, on Addison, xxrii, 184 
Too-Bold, in Piu»iic's Pbogub, 

XV, 307-8 
Tookc, Home, xxru, 292 
Tooke, William Eyton, xxv, 56; in 

Utilitarian movement, 70; and 

Westmintter Review, 66 
Toothache, Addbx9S to a, -vi, 251-2 
Toparimaca, Ralrigh 00, xxxiii, 360-1 
Topbet, Hinnom named, ir, 100 _ 
Topiawari, king of Aromaia, xxxiii, 

3^5, 365-*. 375-9 
Torello, Lelio, xxxi, 430 note 
Torqnatus, A^ Gcero on, ix, 140: 

IHntc on, XX, 309; Virgil on, xiii, 

239 
Torralva, Lope Rnirz and, xir, 166-8 
Torrens, Col.. Mill on, xxv, 60 
Torrigiani, Piero, xxxi, 23-5 
Tonom avd Bibos, fable of, xtH, 

30 
T oBf O iaa avs Babe, fable of, xrn, 

99 



Tortoises, 00 Chafbam Island, xxfr, 
397; Darwin on meat of. 3991 of 
(^dapagos TiJandiw 4>7; bsuits fl^ 
405-8 

Tortore, voiSaaal, VLzniaoa oa, 
xxxT, 382; Hobbcs oil, xxxtv, 
415; in Massachusetts^ xfin, 77 

Too, CiangbHla, xx, 3^ note 12 
Totems^ in IrHuid, xfix, 214 
Tondi, heaaoj to sense of, xxxr, 

103-4 
Tomaiiie, Earl of, at Poitiers, xxxr, 

47 
Tourneys, Bacoo -on, ni, loi 
Toomon, Francois de, xxxi, 273 

note 
ToussAixT L'Outexttbz, adi, 671-9 
Town, and coontry, relations at, x, 

13^*^. 319-22 
Towx Mouse axo Couxtbt ytoasM, 

isAAt of, xrii, 12 _ 

Town Meetings, dmurbgrs o€, xbn, 

78 ^56) 
Towns, Goethe on life in, xix, 377; 

in Mamachnsctts, xfixi, 79-80, 81; 

origin of, x, 321-2 
TownAeod, Goldsmith on, afi, 518. 

S20 

Toxodon, Darwin on the, xxix, 94 
Trade, advantam of, x, 22-3; Bal- 

aioo of labor limited by facilitica 
of, a4-5; EaKtnon on tibe jnf% 
of, ▼, 47-*; gemus m, 193-4; Gold- 
smith on evils of, xb, 523, 5^; 
^^■^■■■iH^Mf mterfercnee with* 
XXT, 303-11; bonre and foceigB, x, 
349-Sp; human propensity ta, i^ 
20; Xodce on le arnin g a, xxxm, 
185-90; neccmity of, x. 29; Fen n 
on ways of, i, 406 (185-6); tyran- 
ny of, ▼, 416; •*the wena porta of 
weahh," iii, 107; Virftaiiv 00, 
xxxiT, 94; whoksmle, three hinds 
of, X, 310; Wuttlmin on, i, 188, 
204 aoDd noie, ao6 (sec ato Cmn- 
merce) 
Trades, eqnality of, the r euuisite s 
to. X, 121-6; exclnsiTe, prafetsand 



wages in, 65,^66; _ ^^_ 
interferences with eg— lity of, 
126-52; incorporated, 126-38;^ in- 
eqn^ities. natural, of varioas, 
106-26; inequalities^ po litical . 126- 
52; Tzii bill on, aV, 66 (4) 
Trade-winds, effect of Andes Momi- 

tains on, xxix, 342-3 
Trading Companies, x, 480-5 
Tbadttioxai. Bauads, rf, 5»-i?5 
Traditions, orer-reverence of, in, 48 
Tngc«|y, before .gschy lns, v iii, 3; 
Athenian, ir. 406; AimuHine, St~ 
on, yu^ 34; better read thnn seen, 
BBxts. 2yA^\ Cervantes on, xrv, 
503; Demds 00 unity of pbcc in* 



422 



GENERAL INDEX 



xxvii, 204; Dryden on, compared 
with epic poetry, xiii, 7-1 1, 14; 
English, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 133- 
8; French classical, xxvi, 70; 
Greek, Hugo on, xxxix, 358-9, 
364-5; Johnson on origin of, 224; 
Lamb on stage representation of, 
xxvii, 316-31; Macaulay on elo- 
quence in, xxvii, 402; Marcus 
Aurelius on lessons of, ii, 290 
(6); Milton on, iv, 416-17; in 
periods of decay, xxvii, 357; 
pleasure in, Burke on, xxiv, 41-3; 
pleasures of, Milton on, iv, 37; 
pleasure in, the reason of, xxvii, 
369; xxxix, 234; popular notions 
of, 225; requires a comic element, 
xxviii, 183-4; Schiller on, xxxii, 
286; Sidney on, xxvii, ^o; Vol- 
taire on translations of, xxxiv, 
143 (see also Drama) 

Tragic Fragment, A, vi, 23-4 

Traitors, ^Eschylus on, viii, 193; 
punishment of, in Dante's HelIv, 
XX, 48, 133-44 , . 

Trajan, the Christians and, ix, 428 
and note; Dante on, xx, 187 and 
note; in Dante's Paradise, 372, 
373-4; expedition against Dece- 
balus, ix, 388 note 4; the forum 
of, 383 note 3; the government 
of, 374 note i; justice of, 308-10; 
Pliny and, 193; Pliny on, 255, 
307; Pliny's correspondence with, 
374-438; success of empire of, 
384 note i; times of, ii, 219 (32) 

Trajano, the chamberlain, xxxi, 126, 

i5i» 153 
Tramaglino, Renzo, in I Promessi 
Sposi, marriage of, forbidden, 
xxi, 14, 20-1 ; put off by Abbon- 
dio, 26-30; learns of Don Rodrigo, 
31-3; plans of vengeance, 34-5; 
with Lucia, 37; hears of Rodrigo's 
persecution, 39-41 ; with Azzecca- 
Garbugli, 42-9; returns, 53-4; 
promises not to attack Rodrigo, 
72-4; plans for marriage with 
Lucia, 92-9; threatens to kill 
Rodrigo, 102-3; wins Lucia's con- 
sent, 103-4; at the inn, 113-16; at 
Abbondio's 11 7-18, 121, 123-4, 
1 30-1; goes to convent, 134-8; to 
Monza, 138-43; in Milan, 197- 
203; in the insurrection, 213, 214- 
16; in attack on corn superinten- 
dents, 220, 222, 228, 230; pro- 
poses appeal to Ferrer, 236-8; at 
the inn, 239-53; arrested, 259-66; 
rescued, 267; flight to Bergamo, 
268-301; disappearance of, 450-1; 
actual truth of disappearance, 451- 
3; demanded by Don Gonzalo, 
452-3; corresponds with Agnese, 
457-61; returns to Bergamo, 563- 
4; taken with plague, 564; deter- 
mines to seek Lucia, 565-8; re- 



turns to native village, 568-76; 
goes to Milan, 576-92; learns Lu- 
cia's sickness, 592-3; suspected pf 
being a poisoner, 593-7; at the 
Lazzaretto, 598-603; meets Cristo- 
foro, 604-13; search for Lucia, 
614-20; finds Lucia, 620-6; leads 
Cristoforo to her, 627-9; reunited 
to Lucia, 631-4; returns to tell 
Agnese, 635-42; preparations for 
marriage, 643-5, 050; asks Abbon- 
dio to perform ceremony, 651-2; 
outlawry removed, 659-60; mar- 
ried to Lucia, 661-2; at Bergamo, 
662-5; in business with Bortolo, 
665-6; daughter born to, 667; 
lessons he had learned, 667 

Trance of Cessation, xlv, 747-53 

Tranibores, in Utopia, xxxvi, 187, 
192 

Tranquillity, Epictetus on, ii, 143 
(71), 149 (85), 153 (94), 180 
(188); Franklin on, i, 84; Marcus 
Aurelius on, ii, 213 (3), 224 (2), 
240 (31), 250 (37), 251 (43) 

Tranquillus, Suetonius, letters to, 
ix, 2X2, 424-5 

Transcendentalists, belief of the, 
xxviii, 318 

Transfers, taxes on, x, 528-34 

Transfiguration, the, xliv, 384 (29- 

Transformations, Browne on, iii, 295 
Transition, beauty lies in, v, 313; 

Darwin on modes of, xi, 194-8 
Transitional Habits, xi, 184-7 
Transitional Structures, xi, 184-7 
Transitional Varieties, absence of, 
xi, 179-84; in geological forma- 
tions, 346-54 
Transitoriness, of things, v, 155-6, 

159 

Translating, as a means of study, ix, 
316 

Translations, Dryden on, xiii, 67-8; 
Eliot on, 1, 4; Johnson on, xxxix, 
214; Shelley on vanity of, xxvii, 
350; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 135, 136- 
7. 143 

Transmigration, Egyptian belief in, 
xxxiii, 63; Lessing on, xxxii, 216- 
17; rebirth not, xlv, 693, 697-700; 
Socrates on, ii, 59-63, 74-5; Virgil 
on, xiii, 235-6 

Transparency, cause of, xxxiv, i2§-6 

Transsilvania, Freeman on, xxviii, 
278 

Transubstantiation (see Real Pres- 
ence) 

Trapemernes, in Utopia, xxxvi, 246 

Traube, Moritz, xxxviii, 331-2 note 
I, 361 . ^ 

Travel, Bacon on, iii, 48-50; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 14 (19); Darwin 
on, xxix, 527-33; Descartes on, 
xxxiv, 8; education by, iii» 259 » 
xxxii, 40, 46-7; Emerson on, 7$ 



GENERAL INDEX 



123 



83-4; Epictetus on thirst for, li, 
121 (14), 142 (70); Locke on, 
xxxvii, 1 9 1-4; Pliny on motives 
of, ix, 345-6 

Traveller, Admonition to a, xli, 
695-6 

Traveller, The, by Goldsmith, xli, 

532-44 
Travels and Voyages, xxxiii 
Traversaro, Pier, xx, 204 note 16 
Treachery, punished in Hell, xx, 

^33-44 

Treason, most horrid where trust 
is, xviii, 82; punishment of, in 
Dante's Hell, xx, 48, 133-44; 
punishment of, ^ in old England, 
XXXV, 382-3; against United States, 
xliii, 203 

Treasure-trove, Smith on, x, 231-2 

Treaties (United States), under the 
Confederation, xliii, 172, 175; un- 
der Constitution, 198 (10), 201 
(2) ; interpretation of, 202 

Treaties of Commerce, Smith on, x, 

407-13 
Trebatius, Cicero on, ix, 118; Cicero 

and, xii, 257 
Trebellius, Plutarch on, xii, 340 
Trebonius, on Antony, xii, 343; 

Cicero on, ix, 118 
Trebuat, son of Hua-Lonsce, xlix, 

233 
Tree, parable of the rotten, xv, 210 
Tree and Reed, fable of, xvii, 25 
Tree of Knowledge, Milton on, iv, 

163, 185-6, 243, 254-5, 280, 281-3 
Tree of Life, highest in Eden, iv, 

162, 163 
Trees, as abodes, Buddha on, xlv, 
596 note 12; conditions favorable 
to, xxix, 57-8; experiments on, in 
New Atlantis, iii, 183-4; fallen, 
Darwin on, xxix, 319-20; imper- 
fect men,_ v, 240; Locke on study 
of, xxxvii, 157; separated sexes 
in, xi, 11^; silicified, xxix, 373; 
silicified, in the Andes, 351-2; 
Thoreau on climbing, xxviii, 436 
Trelawny, And Shall, Die, xlii, 

IIS7-8 

Tremellius, Emanuel, xxvii, 14 

Trent, city of. Freeman on, xxviii, 
265 

Trent, Council of, on liberty of 
press, iii, 206, 208; schoolmen at, 
47-8 

Tresham, Austin, in A Blot in the 
'Scutcheon, betrothed to Guen- 
dolen, xviii, 361; on Mertoun's 
suit, 362, 364; in scene between 
Earl Tresham and Mildred, 382. 
384-6; with brother after duel, 
394-5 ; with Thorold at death, 399- 
400 

Tresham, Earl, in A Blot in the 
'Scutcheon, described by retain- 
ers, xviii, 359-60; welcomes Mer- 



toun and his suit, 361-6; Guen- 
dolen on, 367-8; hears Mildred's 
fault from Gerard, 374-7; with 
Guendolen, sends for Mildred, 
378-9; with Mildred, 379-84; un- 
der Mildred's window, 388-9; meet- 
ing with Mertoun, 390-4; with 
Guendolen after duel, 394-5; witk 
Mildred after Mertoun's death, 
396-9; death of, 400 

Tresham, Guendolen, in A Blot in 
the 'Scutcheon, betrothed to 
Austin, xviii, 361; on Mertoun's 
suit, 362, 363, 364-6; with Mil- 
dred, 366-8; with Earl Tresham, 
378-9; in scene between Tresham 
and Mildred, 382-3, 384-8; with 
Earl Tresham after duel, 394-5; 
with Thorold at death, 399-400 

Tresham, Mildred, in A Blot in the 
'Scutcheon, sought by Mertoun, 
xviii, 358, 362-4; age of, 365; with 
Guendolen, 366-8; with Mertoun, 
369-74; relations with Mertoun, 
372-3'f, discovered by Gerard, 375- 
7; with Earl Tresham, 379-84; 
with Guendolen, confesses Mer- 
toun her lover, 386-8; in chamber, 
waiting for Mertoun, 396; with 
Thorold after Mertoun's death, 
396-9; dies, 399 

Trespasses, in Massachusetts, xliii, 
74 (24) 

Tresvaux, Abbe, Renan on, xxxii, 
182 

Treverians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 
III 

Treves, Marlowe on, xix, 222-3 

Trials, jury, xliii, 202-3; right of 
prompt, 77 (41); in United States, 
202-3, 207 (5), 208 (6, 7); Win- 
throp on right of, 97 

Triassic Period, in Europe, xxx, 361 

Tribocians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 
I II 

Tribulation, Kempis on, vii, 263-7, 
291-2, 304-6, 324.5, 329-30; More 
on, xxxvi, 105; Pascal on, xlviii, 
:j6o 

Tribunes, of Rome, xii, 157; power 
of Roman, ix, 359 note 9 

Tributary States, Machiavelli on, 
xxxvi, 8-12, 18-19; 72-3; More 
on, 168-9 

Trickery, Penn on, i, 363 

Trieste, Freeman on, xxviii, 265 

Trifles, Confucius on, xliv, 54 (26), 
55 (33)1 Franklin on, i, 84; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 219 (32); 
Pascal on, xlviii, 52 (136), 77 
(198); Penn on, 365-6 (314); 
profiting in, iii, 51 

Trifling, Locke on, xxxvii, 114 

Trimorphism, Darwin on, xi, 61; 
reciprocal, 319-22 

Trina, in Wise Folks, xvii, 204* 
207 



424 



GENERAL INDEX 



Trinculo, in The Tempest, xlvi, 
408, 409-12, 4i5-i9> 430-2, 440- 
441 

Trinidad, Raleigh on, xxxiii, 322-3 

Trinity, Browne on the, iii, 275 (12) ; 
Ccleridge on doctrine of the, v, 
331-2; Dante on the, xx, 342 note 
iS* 39i» 426-7; first taught by 
Moses, xlviii, 269 (752); Lessing 
on doctrine of the, xxxii, 211 -12; 
Mohammed on the, xlv, 1016; 
Newman on doctrine of the, 
xxviii, 38; universal idea of a, 
V, 169 

Trinity, The Holy, xlv, 577-8 

Trip, in School for Scandal, xviii, 
146-7, 161 

Triptolemus, Socrates on, ii, 28 

Trismegistus, Hermes, iii, 273 note; 
Milt9n on, iv, 37; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 212 (628) 

Trist, Nicholas P., xliii, 309 

Tristan, in Dante's Hell, xx, 23; 
Renan on, xxxii, 170, 171; Ysoude 
and, xiv, 515 

Tristram, Sir, xxxix, 25 

Triton, references to, xiii, 80; 
xli, 694 

Triumph, The, xl, 297-8 

Triumphs, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

lOO-IOI 

Triumphs, Cato on, ix, 158; Roman, 

Bacon on, iii, 84 
Trivia, name of Diana, xx, 384 note 

2; Hippolytus and, xiii, 269-70 
Troilus, and Achilles, xiii, 92 
Trochilus, and crocodile, xxxiii, 37 
Trophimus the Ephesian, xliv, 479 

(29) 
Tropics, Darwin on scenery of the, 

xxix, 522-3, 529-30; More on the, 

xxxvi, 146; not always habitable, 

xxxix, 1X2 

Trotti, Alfonso de*, xxxi, 283-5 

Troubadours, Arnold on the, xxviii, 
75-6 

Trouble, man born into, xliv, 79 
(7); none free from, vii, 237 (i) 

Trotter. W. F., translator of Pascal, 
xlviii 

Troubles, Manzoni on. xxi, 668 

Trouveres, Renan on the, xxxii, 
168-9 

Troy, ^schylus on siege of, viii, 
25; Augustus planned to rebuild, 
xiii, 22; downfall caused by 
Helen, viii, 30-2; Herodotus on 
plains about, xxxiii, 9; Herodotus 
on story of, 57-9; the horse ot, 
Homer on, xxii, 117-18; the horse 
of Virgil on, xiii, 104-12; 
Recuyell of Histories of. xxxix, 
5-9; remarks on siege of, xxii. 3; 
taking of, related by ^neas. xiii, 
103-24; taking of, announced, 
viii, 6, 16-17 



Troyes, ancient fair of, x, 33 
True Loyal Natives, The, vi, 48S 
Truelove, Edward, xxv, 232 note 3 
Trumball, Sir William, and Dryden, 

xiii, 430 
Trumpeter Taken Prisoner, fable 

of, xvii, 44 
Trumpets, Dryden on, xl, 399 
Trunk, The Flying, xvii, 364-70 
Trussel, in Edward II, xlvi, 66 
Trusts, Penn on, i, 357 (191) 
Truth, in art, v, 314; St. Augustine 
on, love of, vii, 186-7; on 
authority. Mill on, xxv, 238-49; 
Bacon on search for, xxxix, 135, 
138-47, 150-3; beauty and, Keats 
on, xli, 903; Berkeley on, xxxvii, 
242; Buddha on, xlv, 610-11; 
Bunyan on, xv, 8-9; Channing 
on, love of, xxviii, 337-8; with 
children, xxxvii, 112, 113; com- 
motions due to spread of, xxxix, 
46-7; Confucius on, xliv, 9 {22) ^ 
13 (8, 9)» 30 (24), 53 (5), 54 
(28), 55 (31); courtesy and, v, 
216; Descartes on, xxxiv, 5, 16- 
20, 27; diversity of, iii, 240; 
eloquence and, i, 352-3; Emerson 
on, V, 27, 67, 78-9, i44-5» 194, 
195, 299; exact difficulty of, 
xxviii, 287, 291-2; of fact and of 
sentiment, 287-8, 292-3; Franklin 
on, 1, 58; friendship and, v, 115- 
16; historical, Montaigne on, xxxii, 
102; Hindu Krishna on, xlv, 821, 
864-5; Hume on, xxxvii, 338, 
432; Kempis on, vii, 215-16, 272; 
liberty necessary to progress of, 
iii, 232-3, 241-2; Locke on in- 
quiry of, xxxvii, 171; Lowell on, 
xiii, 1449, 1450, 1459, 1461-2; 
Milton on, iii, 229, 239-40; Mon- 
taigne on, xlviii, 398; men natural 
lovers of, v, 275, 278; in nature, 

293, 388; opinions and, xxxiv, 
13, 16; Pascal on, xlviii, 14 (21), 
29. 38, 79 (211), 99 (282), 128-9, 
194 (582), 305 (857), 427-8, 438; 
Penn on, i, 353, 354, 404 (164); 
persecution and, xxv, 230-2; Poe 
on inculcation of, xxviii, 388; 
poetry and, 388, 391, 403; xxxix, 

294, 296; Quakers on, i, 200; 
Rousseau's method of seeking, 
xxxiv, 250-3 ; Schiller on, xxxii, 244 ; 
xxv, 367; search for, ii, 171 
(149) ; Socrates's test of, 94; 
speaking and hearing, xxviii, 
293-4; an attribute of speech, xxxiv, 
339; suppressed, Milton on, iii, 
203; told with bad intent, xli, 
602; said to lie in a well, xxviii, 
478; Whittier on, xiii, 1427 

Truth. Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 7-9 
Truth of Intercourse, Stevenson*s» 
xxviii, 287-94 



GENERAL INDEX 



425 



Truthfulness, Locke on, xxxvii, 126; 

Whitman on, xxxix, 424-5 
Truttes, Bernard of, xxxv, 60 
Tryon, vegetarian, i, 17, 36 
Tsai Wo, disciple of Confucius, xHv, 

II (21), 16 note, 21 (24), 34 (2), 

62 (21) 
Tsai-Yii, xliv, 16 (9) 
Tsang Wen, xliv, 16 (17, 18), 53 

(13) 
Tsang Wu-chung, xliv, 47 (13), 48 

(15) 
Tseng-Hsi, xliv, 37 (25) 
Tseng-tzu, disciple of Confucius, xliv, 

13 note, 5 (4), 6 (9), 25 (3), 26 

(4-7). 36 (17) note 13, 42 (24), 

50 (28), 67 (16-19) 
Tso Ch'in-ming, xliv, 18 (24) 
Tubero, Quintus, T. Gracchus and, 

ix, 21 
Tucker, Ellen, wife of Emerson, v, 3 
Tucker, Lieut., with Drake, xxxiii, 

245, 267 
Tucutuco, Darwin on the, xxix, 61-2 
Tudwal, grindstone of, xxxii, 152 
Tufton, Sir Louis, xxxv, 23 
Tuidle of Ulaid, xlix, 235 
Tuisto, god of the Germans, xxxiii, 

95 
Tulchinne, the juggler, xlix, 246-7 
Tullia, daughter of Cicero, ix, 82, 
151; death of, 172-6; Plutarch on, 
xii, 261 (see also Tulliola) 
Tulliola, letter to, ix, 91; Cicero on, 

94 
Tullius, M., Cicero on, ix, 102 

TULLOCHGORUM, xH, 581-3 

Tullus, Domitius, will of, ix, 343-5 
Tullus, friend of Cicero, xii, 249 
Tullus, the king, xiii, 239 
Tultie, Salomon de, xlviii, 13 note 
Tumefaction, Harvey on, xxxviii, 121 
Tumors, Harvey on treatment of, 

xxxviii, 1 16-17 
Tungrians, the original Germans, 

xxxiii, 96 
Tunstall, Bishop of Durham, xxxvi, 

107-8, 109, 114, 119, 143 
Tuppukkoowillin, xliii, 152, 156 
Turco, Darwin on the, xxix, 287-8 
Turdi, in ancient Rome, x, 19s 
Turenne, Pope on, xl, 444; ^ainte- 

Beuve on, xxxii, 131 
Turgis, Count of Tortosa, xlix, 129, 

142 

Turgot, Mill on, xxv, 76 
Turin, .Pare on expedition against, 

xxxviii, 9-1 1 
Turkey, Burke on, xxiv, 275; poets 

in, xxvii, 10; Smith on, 253 
Turkey-buzzard, Darwin on the, 

xxix, 69, 199, 302 
Turkey-cock, hair of the, xi, 103 
Turkish Empire, Freeman on races 

in, xxviii, 273-9; MachiavelH on 

the. xxxvi, 16, 17; power of sol- 
diery in, 70 



Turks, kindness of, to animals, iii, 
35; Magyars and, xxviii, 235-7; 
royalty of the, iii, 53 

Turn-about, Lord, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 104 

Turn All Thy Thoughts to Eyes, 
xl, 293 

Turnaway, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 129-30 

Turn-back, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 156 

Turner, Andrew, On, vi, 534 

Turner, Charles Tennyson, Letty's 
Globe, xii, 947 

Turnspits, Harrison on, xxxv, 374 

Turnus, in the -^neid, Lavinia and, 
xiii, 245; descent of, 256; stirred 
by Alecto against -^neas, 258-9; 
beginning of war, 263-5; his allies, 
265-71; shield of, 270; attacks Tro- 
jan fleet and town, 297-302, 314- 
25; renews battle, 336-7; kills 
Pallas, 341-3; drawn from battle 
by Juno, 349-50; challenged by 
yEneas, 364; denounced by Drances, 
368, 373-4; his reply, 37^-6; agrees 
to fight ^neas, 377; in cavalry 
fight, 378-80, 392; determines to 
fight ^neas in single combat, 394- 
8; in Rutulian fight, 406-8, 410- 
14; final combat with i^neas, 418- 
28; remarks on duel with ^neas, 
50-2; Dante on, xx, 8; Milton on, 
iv, 264* Sidney on^ xxvii, 26 

Turpin, Archbishop, in Song of Ro- 
land, xlix, 103, 106; with Roland 
in return to France, 125; at 
Roncesvalles, 137, 140-1, 144, 145, 
147, 149, 150-1, 154, 157-8, 162-3, 
167, 172, 173, 174-5. 176; last 
benediction, 177-80; found by 
Charlemagne, 194; his tomb, 198 

Turpio, Amoivius, Cicero on, ix, 63 

Turtles, catching of, in Keeling 
Island, xxix, 484 

Tuscany, Pliny's description of, ix, 
278-9 

Tuscus, Minutius, husband of Corel- 
lia, ix, 319; letter to, 316 

Tutelary Angels, Browne on, iii, 
288, 297-8; Elihu on, xliv, 126 
(23); Walton on, xv, 341-2 

Tutors, Locke on, xxxvii, 73-85, 88, 
137. 149-52, 164, 179 

TwA Corbies, The, xl, 75 

TwA Dogs, The, vi, 158-65: editorial 
remarks on, 17; an idyllic poem, 
xxxix, 314 

Twa Herds, The, vi, 67-70 

TwA Sisters, The, x1,^4-6 

'TwAS Na Her Bonie Blue E'e, vi, 

571 , 
Tweeddale, Marquis of, xxv, 8 
Twelfth Day, celebration of, xv, 

408 
Twelve Peers, Charlemagne's, xlix, 

185 



426 



GENERAL INDEX 



Twelve Tables, Law of, xlviii, 209, 

210 
Twenty Years Hence, xli, 923 
Twenty-four Years After, Dana's, 

xxiii, 395-426 
Twenty-three, On Being Arrived 

AT THE Age of, iv, 30 
Twist, Tom. in She Stoops to Con- 
quer, xviii, 205 
Two April Mornings, xli, 615-17 
Two Black Hounds, story of the, 

xvi, 23-6 
Two Kings' Children, story of the, 

xvii, 208 
Two-tongues, Mr., in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 104 
Two Years Before the Mast, xxiii; 

editorial remarks on, 1, 52 
Twrch Trwyth, Arthur and, xxxii, 

153 
Tyaga, xlv, 876 
Tybris, reference to, xiii, 283 
Tydeus, Athenian general, xii. 148; 
and Menalippus, xx. 137; Virgil's 
mention of, in Hades, xiii, 22^ 
Tydides, bravest of the Grecian 

train, xiii, 79 
Tyler, Wat, leader of the rebellion, 
xxxv, 63. ()>, 70, -J I, 74, 77, 78; 
Richard Lyon and, 71; death, 78-9 
T>TidaIl, John, on Faraday, xxx, 4; 
on glaciers, 235, 2Z-j, 239, 242, 
247, 251, 258 
Tyndareus, Lede and, xxii, 159 
Types, law of succession of, xi, 388- 

90 ^ 

Typhoeus, Dante on, xx, 318 note 8; 

Virgil on, xiii, 321 ^ 
Typhon, the giant, viii, 168 and note 
22\ deposed by Apollo, xxxiii, 74; 
^lilton on, iv, 95 
Typology, Pascal on, xlviii, 218-36 
Typotherium, Darwin on the, xi, 378 
Tyrannicide, Mill on, xxv, 218 note 
Tyranny, adage on, xvi, 36; death 
a gentler lord than, viii, 57; law- 
lessness and, 135; of majorities, 
xxv, 204-6; Milton on, iv, 348; of 
opinion, xxv, 206-10; origin of, 
xxxiv, 220-4, 230-1 ; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 116 (332); Pope on, xl, 
439; of rulers, xxv, 203-4 
Tyrant Flycatchers, Darwin on, xxix, 

64-5 
Tyrants. Cicero on, ix, 27; in 

Dante's Hell, xx, 53 
Tyre, antiquity of, xxxiii, 27 
Tyrian Cynosure, referred to, iv, 55 
Tyrker, the German, xliii, 8, 10- 11 
Tyrnog, pot of, xxxii, 152 
Tyro, Homer on, xxii, 25, 158 
Tyrrhene Trump, ^Eschylus on the, 

viii, 136 
Tyrrhenus, in the .^neid, xiii, 383 
Tyrrheus, in the .-Eneid. xiii, 260-2 
Tyrtaeus, Sidney on, xxvii, 9. 14 
Tysander, in Trojan horse, xiii, 112 



Tythes, Smith on, x, 508-10 
Tytler, William, Address to, vi, 

279-80 
Tzetzes, xxxii, 188 note 31 
Tzu-ch'an, xliv, 16 (15), 47 (9, 10) 
Tzu-chang, disciple of Confucius, 
xliv, 8 (18), 9 (23), 16 (18), 36 
(17) note 14 (19), 39 (6), 40 (10, 
14), 41 (20), 51 (43), 52 (5), 55 
(41), 60 (6), 65 (i, 2, 3), 67 (15, 
16), 69 (2) 
Tzu-ch'in, disciple of Confucius, xlivj 

6 (10), 58 (13) note 8, 68 (25) 
Tzu-chien, disciple of Confucius, 

xliv, 15 (2) 
Tzu-hsia, disciple of Confucius, xliv, 
5 (7). 7 (8), 10 (8), 20 (11), 34 
(2), 39 (5)» 42 i22^, 45 (17), 47 
(10), 65 (3). 66 (4-13) 
Tzu-kao, xliv, 35 note 7, z-j (24) 
Tzu-kung, xliv, 6 (10, 15), 8 (13), 
II (17), 15 (3. 8), 16 (11, 12, 14), 
19 (6) note 9, 21 (28), 23 (14), 
28 (6), 29 (12), 34 (2), 35 (12, 
15), 36 (18), 39 (7, 8), 42 (23), 
45 (20), 46 (24), 48 (18), 50 (30, 
31. Zl^y 52 (2), 53 (9), 54 (23), 

61 (19), 62 (24), 67 (20-3), 68 

(24-5) 
Tzu-lu, disciple of Confucius, xliv, 
8 note 5, 15 (6, 7), 16 (13), 18 
(25), 19 (6) note 8, 21 (26), 22 
(10), 23 (18), 25 (34), 29 (11), 
30 (26), 35 (11, 12) note 7 (14), 
36 (17) note 15 (21, 2Z), 37 (24, 
25), 40 (12), 42 (i), 43 (3), 46 
(28), 47 (13), 48 (17), 49 (23), 
50 (38), 51 (41. 45)» 52 (i, 3)» 
56 (i) note 2, 59 (5), 60 (7, 8), 

62 i2z), 63 (6). 64 (7) 
Tzu-sang Po-tzu, xliv, 18 (i) 
Tzu-Yu, disciple of Confucius, xliv, 

7 (7), 14 (26), 20 (12), 34 (2), 
47 (9)» 59 (4)» 66 (12), 67 (14, 
15). . 

Cbaldini, Ottaviano, xx, 45 note 
Ubaldini, Ruggieri degli, xx, 138 

note I 
Ubaldini, Ugolina, xx, 205 note 28 
L'baldino degli Ubaldini, xx, 245 

note 3 
Ubaldo, Guido, fortresses of, xxxvi, 

74 
Ubbriachi, arms of the, xx, ^z 

note 4 
Uberti, family of, xx. 98 note 5 
Uberti, Farinata degli, xx, 42-5 
Uberti, Mosca degli, in Hell, xx, 

27-8, 119-20 
Ubertini, Antonio, xxxi, 58 note 2, 

369 note 5 
Ubertini, Francesco, xxxi. 58 note 2 
Ubians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 11 1 
Uchali, king of Algiers, xiv, 404-5, 

411 
Uddaka, the disciple, xlv, 734-61 

739-40 






11^ S«7 



GEHEMAL INDEX 



, 357 mmt Z5 




VuaMMM^ zfi, uti-3 
Ulin, Sir, xxxw, 199 
UHades, tke Sammam, zn, M4 
Uluv's DAZTSKnB, zfi, 792-4 






WUMXtM 



Uli 



(see Odyqg) 





428 



GENERAL INDEX 



Spain (1819), 286-95; Treaty of 
1898 WITH SpaiNj 469-77; Whit- 
man on poetry in, xxxix, 409-32; 
Wordsworth on, v, 336 

United States Bank, Marshall on 
the, xliii, 222-4, 226-30, 238-9 

United States Constitution, xliii, 
192-211 

Unity, David on excellence of, xliv, 
319; enforced, ends progress, iii, 
232-6, 241 ; why excluded from 
numbers, xlviii, 441 ; Mohammed's 
chapter of, xlv, 893; of nature, 
Emerson on, v, 240; of nature, 
Epictetus on, ii, 129 (36); of 
nature, Marcus Aurelius on, 221 
(40, 45), 241 (37, 38), 246 (9), 
304 (30) ; of nature. Pope on, xl, 
433-4, 436; in religion, Pascal on, 
xlviii, 309 (871); in religion, St. 
Paul on, xlv, 501 (10) 

Unity in Religion, Essay on. Ba- 
con's, iii, 11-15 

Unity of Type, defined, xi, 472; 
law of, 218 

Universal-Monarch-Uproar, xlv, 618 

Universe, Addison on wonders of, xlv, 
547; arrangements of the, prove 
God, xxxiv, 255-6, 258-61; Berke- 
ley on wonders of the, xxxvii, 244- 
6; Buddha on question of extent 
of, xlv, 662-7; Channing on the, 
xxviii, 335-6; Descartes on growth 
of the, xxxiv, 36-7; Emerson on, 
V, 93-4, 173, 182, 323-36; Goethe 
on the, xix, 24; Hindu idea of, 
xlv, 864; Hume on man in regard 
to, xxxvii, 389-90; man with re- 
spect to the, xl, 419-25; Marcus 
Aurelius on, cooperation of the, 
ii, 221 (40, 45), 235 (9), 241 
(38), 242 (43). 246 (9), 265 (50); 
Milton's ideas of, iv, 248-50; 
nature of ii, 218 {27), 235 (10), 
239 (25). 279 (6); Pascal on 
greatness of the, xlviii, 25-6; Pope 
on the, xl, 433-4; unity and sym- 
metry of the, XXX, 327-8 

Universities, defined, xxviii, 31; 
courses at, originally apprentice- 
ships, X, 127-8; Luther on, xxxvi, 
338-43; necessity of, to highest 
education, xxviii, 32-9; origin of, 
XXV, 379; sites of, xxviii, 40-51; 
trade corporations formerly called, 
X, 127 

University, Idea of a, by Newman, 
xxviii, 31-62 

University Carrier, On the, iv, 
26, 27 

University Life at Athens, xxviii, 
52-62 

University of Paris, site of, xxviii, 
45-6 

University of Pennsylvania, founded 
by Franklin, i, 109, 117-^9, 172 

Unnamed, the, in I Promessi Sposi, 



XXI? 327-31; castle of, 333-4; so- 
licited by Rodrigo, 335-8; regrets 
undertaking agamst Lucia, 345-7; 
with Nibbio, 349-So; with Lucia, 
351-4; further doubts and regrets, 
358-63; visits Cardinal Federigo, 
364-6, 377-88; returns to free Lu- 
cia, 393-5; takes her to village, 
397-404; announces his reforma- 
tion, 418-22; sends gift to Agnese, 
445; his humility, 502-6; during 
German invasion, 506-7, 511-14 

Unproductive Labor, in agricultural 
system, x, 450-3, 459-63; defined, 
270-1; maintenance of, 272-3; 
More on, xxxvi, 19 1-2; propor- 
tion of, on what dependent, x, 
^273-7 

Unsocial Acts, Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii, 218 (29), 272 (23) 

Unteraar Glacier, xxx, 226-7; move- 
ment of, 235 

Unwin, Mary, To, xli, 549-51 

Up in the Morning Early, vi, 316 

Up-Hill, xlii, 1229 

Upaka, the ascetic, xlv, 740-1 

Upatissa, disciple of Buddha, xlv, 
600 

Upavana, xlv, 648-9 

Upholsterer, Chaucer's, xl, 21 note 
192 

Uppalavanna, disciple of Buddha, 
xlv, 600 

Uprightness, Confucius on, xliv, 20 
(17); without courtesy, 25 (2); 
with learning, 60 (8) 

Uproars, of Buddhism, xlv, 617-18 

Upton, critic of Shakespeare, xxxix, 
252 

L'rania, Dante on, xx, 265; Milton 
on, iv, 230-1 

Urban VIII, in Mantuan contest, 
xxi, 455 

Urbiciani, Buonaggiunta, xx, 244 
and note i 

Urbino, Duke of, xxxi, 76 note i 

Urbino, Gian di, xxxi, 81 note 4 

Urbs Sion Aurea, xlv, 561-2 

Urganda, in Don Quixote, xiv, 49- 
50 

Urgel, Nicholas, Cardinal of, xxxv, 

34 
Uriah, reference to, xliii, 99 
Uriel, in Paradise Lost, iv, 153-4, 

156, 160, 171-2, 216 
Urien, a Breton saint, xxxii, 169 
Urim, reference to, iv, 388 
Uruguay River, Darwin on the, 

xxix, 160; sediment of, xxxviii, 

424 

Use, Burke on effects of, xxiv, 88; 
Darwin on, and disuse, xi, 29, 
147-52; Keats on, xli, 896; neces- 
sary to true possession, xix, 32; 
Shakespeare on, xlvi, 158 (see 
also Habit) 

Usefulness, as source of beauty. 



GENERAL INDEX 



429 



xxix, 427; Marcus Aurelius on, 
ii, 209 (6), 243 (44) 

Usipians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 
n4 

Uspallata Mountains, Darwin on 
the, xxix, 351 

Usuitrs, in Dante's Hell, xx, 72-$; 
Sheridan on, xviii, 140-1 

Usurpation, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 
33-4; Pascal on beginning of, 
xlyiii, 106 (295); Washington on, 
xliii, 260 

Usury, Dante on, xx, 48-9; in India 
and ancient Rome, x, 99-100; 
worst method of gain, iii, 94 (see 
also Interest) 

Usury, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 
106-9 

Uther Pendragon, xxxix, 24 

Utilitarian Doctrine, of structures, 
xi, 209-15; objections to, 222-3, 
229-55 

Utilitarian Society, The, xxv, 55-7 

Utilitarianism, Carlyle on, xxv, 369- 
70; Mill on school of, 68-76; 
Mill's work in, 4-5; James Mill's, 
37; origin of name, 55-6 

Utility, beauty and, xxiv, 89-91; in 
ethics, xxv, 213; Locke on, xxxvii, 
182-3; Schiller on, xxxii, 223; as 
end of science, xxxix, 144; Shel- 
ley on, xxvii, 368-9; in works of 
art, xxiv, 91-3 

Utopia, More's, xxxvi, 143-257; 
editorial remarks on, 92; I, 48; 
Peter Giles on, xxxvi, 255-7; 
Sidney on, xxvii, 20 

Utopia, agriculture and live stock 
in, xxxvi, 183-4, 188-9, 217; 
antiquity of, 179; bondmen in, 
219-20, 223-4; its cities, 182-3, 
184, 187, 194, 195; dining-halls, 196, 
197-9; distribution in, 195-6, 200- 
i; aress in, 189; drinks of, 184; 
education and learning in, 206-7 ; 
217-19, 244-5; families and dis- 
tribution of population, 194-5; 
fools and deformed persons, 224; 
foreign trade, 201, 219; govern- 
ment and magistrates, 187-8, 225; 
health and prosperity of people, 
216-17; hospitals in, 196-7; the 
island of, 181-2; language of, 
217-18; laws and justice, 225; 
marriage institutions, 221-3; iii, 
179 and note 57; occupations and 
amusements, xxxvi, 188-94, 200; 
philosophy, 207-16; use of pre- 
cious metals and stones, 202-6; 
punishments in, 220, 223-4; readi- 
ness of people to learn from oth- 
ers, 179-80, 217, 219; relations 
with other states, 226-8; religions 
of, 237-50; sciences, crafts and 
occupations, 188-94, 200; care of 
the sick, 220-1; situation of, 



256-7; socialism in, 177, 178-9, 
186, 195-6, i97» 200-1, 250, 252, 
253, 254; statues of good men, 
224; strangers in, 197; travelling 
in, 199-200; wars of, 195, 201-2, 
228-37 

Utopus, king of Utopia, xxxvi, 182, 
186-7, 239-40 

Uwaine, Sir, death of, xxxv, 167; 
Galahad and, 123; Gawaine and, 
1 33-1 66-7; Seven Knights and, 
133; at the White Abbey, 121-2 

Uzziel, on guard at Eden, iv, 177 

Vacation Exercise, At a, iv, 21-23 

Vaccination, Franklin on, i, 100; 
history of, xxxviii, 150, 214; Wool- 
man on, i, 247 

Vaccination Against Smallpox, 
Jenner's, xxxviii, 153-231 

Vacuity, Burke on idea of, xxiv, 

63 
Vacuum, Pascal on the, xlviii, 450-1 
Vadimon, Lake, Pliny on, ix, 346-7 
Vagabonds, More on, xxxvi, 163 
Vagon, xxxv, 121 
Vaila, battle of, xxxvi, 45 
Vain-confidence, Mr., in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, i 16-17 
Vainglory, Essay on. Bacon's, iii, 

^34-5 
Vain-glory, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 355, 

387; language of, 358 
Vain-hope, in Pilgrim's Progress, 

XV, 167 
Vaisya, task of a, xlv, 880 
Vajira, the priestess, xlv, 671 
Val-holl, xlix, 293 note 
Valdabrun, xlix, 118, 153-4 
Valdes, in Dr. F\ustus, xix, 203-5 
Valdesso, John, xv, 418-19; Herbert 

on, 425-6 
Valdimagra, Marquis of, xx, 104 

note 5 
Valdivia, Darwin on, xxix, 315-16; 

earthquake at, 320-1 
Valdovinos, history of, xiv, 46 
Vale, Earl de, xxxv, 156 
Valediction, by Donne, xv, 342-3 
Valediction, Forbidding Mourning, 

xl, 312-13 
Valentine, in Faust, xix, 152-9 
Valentino, Duke, Caesar Borgia called, 

xxxvi, 15 
Valere, in TaRtuffe, in love with 

Mariane, xxvi, 198; marriage put 

off by Orgon, 205-7; Orgon on, 

212; with Mariane, on marriage 

with Tartuffe, 222-32; advises 

flight of Orgon, 279-80; promised 

Mariane, 284 
Valeria, and Coriolanus, xii, 184-5 
Valerian, and Sapor, xxxix, 103 
Valerius, character in Sophocles, v, 

125-6 
Valiant-for-the-Truth, in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 177, 299-305. 315* 

16, 319-20 



490 



GENERAL INDEX 



VaIvIant Little Tailor, The, xvii, 

97-104 
Valkyria, xlix, 293 note 
Vallejo, Don Guadelope, xxiii, 415.. 
Valley of Cauteretz, In the, xlii, 

1006 
Valley of the Shadow of Death, xv, 

^5-70 ^ . „ 
Valmiki, Samte-Beuve on, xxxn. 

Valor, Browne on true, ni, 291; de- 
fined by Hobbes, xxxiv, 354; Em- 
erson on, V, 159; Segrais on, xiii, 

Valori, Bartolommeo, xxxi, 118 

note 3 
Valors, our, the best gods, v, 81 
Valparaiso, Darwin on, xxix, 269 
Value(s), comparative, of food and 
materials, x, 186-8; exchange, 36- 
7» 39, 43» 50, 53; in exchange and 
use, 34-5; labor as determining, 
50, 53; of limited or uncertain 
products, 200-11; measured by 
corn, 41-3; measured by money, 
38-9, 43-44, 49; profits as element 
in, 51-2; rent as element in, 52-3; 
scarcity, 188-9; standards of, 45- 
8; of unlimited productions, 190- 
200 (see also Prices) 
Vampire-bats, in Chile, xxix, 32 
Vanbrugh, Sir John, Voltaire on, 

xxxiv, 1 41-2 
Vandals, learning despised by, xxxv, 

404; origin of the, xxxiii, 96 
Van Diemen's Land, climate of, 

xxix, 260; Darwin on, 470-3 
Vandyke, Hazlitt on, xxvii, 293 
Vane, Sir Henry, A Healing Ques- 
tion, xliii, 126-46; sonnet to, iv, 

85 

Vanessa (see Vanhomngh) 

Vangiones, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 
III 

Vanholt, Duke of, in Faustus, xix, 
235 

Vanhomrigh, Esther, Swift and, 
xxviii, 6, 24-6 

Vanini, Berkeley on, xxxvii, 247 

Vanities, worldly, vii, 214 (4) 

Vanity, all is, xliv, 339-42, 354; 
Fielding on, xxxix, 189; folly of, 
vii, 219-20; Franklin on, i, 6; of 
life, xlviii, 62 (161-2), 63 (164); 
Pascal on human, 60 (150); Penn 
on, i, 410-11; in speech, 401 
(119); the strongest human mo- 
tive, xxviii, 96-8; Woolman on, i, 
285 

Vanity, Limbo of, iv, 149-50 

Vanity Fair, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 93-4; altered after Faithful's 
death, 283-4 

Vansen, in Egmont, xix, 267-70, 

294-7 
Vapor, differs from gas in perma- 
nency, XXX, 105 



Varchi, Benedetto da Monte, xx.xi, 
34 note; sonnet on Cellini, 173, 

175 
Varenus, and the Bithynians, ix, 

313-15 

Vargas, Diego Peres of, xiv, 66-7 

Vargas, Garcia Perez de, xiv, 513 

Variability, causes of, xi, 25-9, 56; 
due to changed conditions, 145-7; 
due to use and disuse, 147-52; 
hereditary, 127; of highly devel- 
oped parts, 161-4; in important 
organs, 60; of mongrels and hy- 
brids, 327-8; of multiple, rudimen- 
tary or low structures, 160; of 
secondary sexual characters, 166- 
7; of specific and generic organs, 
164-8 

Variation(s), analogous, xi, 168-71; 
Burke on beauty in, xxiv, 98, 130; 
climate not the cause of, xi, 395- 
6; correlated, 29-30, 155-8; Dar- 
win on abrupt, 258-61; first ap- 
pearance of, 483-4; inheritance of, 
30-1; of instincts, 266; laws of, 
145-77; St. Hilaire on cause of, 
11; Spencer on cause of, 16; spon- 
taneous (see Spontaneous Varia- 
tion); technical meaning of, 58; 
under domestication, 25-57; under 
nature, 58-75; Vestiges of Crea- 
tion in, 13 

Varieties, classification of, xi, 460; 
compared with species, 62-9; evi- 
dence of their being incipient 
species, 72, 73, 74, 165, 330; ex- 
tinct intermediate, 334-5; 346-54; 
fertility of, 322-6; how they be- 
come species, 122-9; intercrossing 
between, 112; intermediate, why 
absent or rare, 179-84; meaning 
of, 58; not clearly distinct from 
species, 349-50; of same species, 
struggle with each other, 90 

Variety, of opinion, Milton on, iii, 
235-7, 240; Pascal on, xlviii, 48 
(114); source of pleasure in, 
xxvii, 277 

Varro, M. Terentius, on country 
life, xxvii, 65; Pompey's lieuten- 
ant, xii, 306; works of, lost, 
xxvii, 361 

Varus, and the Germans, xxxiii, 
117 ^ ^ 

Vasari, Giorgio, Cellini and, xxxi, 
179, 180-1, 439 note 

Vasava, xiv, 844 

Vassellario (see Vasari) 

Vastness, in architecture, xxlv, 67', 
a cause of the sublime, 63-4; not 
lovable, 133-4; physical cause of 
sublimity of, 11 5-16 

Vatable, xlviii, 288 note 

Vatinius, Cicero and, ix, 124, 132; 
xii, 232; Cicero on. 247; Vaude- 
ville, M. de, xxxviii, 42-5 



GENERAL INDEX 



431 



Vaughan, BenJ., letter of, to Frank- 
lin, i, ^2-^^ 
Va^ghan, Henry, poems by, xl, 

35^-8 
Vauvenargues, Sainte-Beuve on, 

xxxii, 137 
Vedius, P., Cicero pn, ix, 157 
Vega, Lope de, xxvi, 3; Carlyle on, 

XXV, 420 
Vegetable Kingdom, beauty in the, 
xxiv, 80; distinguished from ani- 
mal, xxxviii, 356-9 
Vegetarianism, Franklin's, i, 17, 

36 
Veil, Beyond the, xl, 356-7 
Veillantif, horse of Roland, xlix, 

124, 137 
Veins, arteries anciently called, 
xxxviii, 85; arteries and, 108, 
116, 122, 145-6, 147; communi- 
cation of, 120; Harvey on the, 
124-8, 145 
Vejento, in Certus case, ix, 359 
Veleda, worshipped as divinity, 

xxxiii, 100 
Velitrae, colony of, xii, 163-4 
Vellutus, condemns Coriolanus, xii, 
169, 170; protests against colony 
of Velitrae, 163; first of the 
tribunes, 157 
Velocity, as a motive force, xxx, 
194-6; measurement of working 
power of, 196-7; power and, in 
machines, 190-3 
Vena Arteriosa, xxxviii, 91 
Vena Cava, xxxviii, 96, 108 
Venafro, Antonio of, xxxvi, 79 
Vendosme, M. de, xxxviii, 22--^ 
Venedians, Tacitus on the, xxxiii, 

122-3 
Veneration, never dies out, v, 29 
Venery, Franklin's rule of, i, 84 
Venetian Republic, On the Ex- 
tinction OF THE, xii, 691-2 
Venezi^no, Bastiano, xxxi,ii6, 118 
Venezuela, cities of, xxxiii, 314 
Vengeance, Drake on, xxxiii, 133; 
Raleigh on Divine, xxxix, 73-93 
(see also Retribution) 
Veni Creator Spiritus, xly, 559 
Venice, Browning on, xlii, 11 22; 
growth and decline of, xxxvi, 45; 
land-tax of, x, 503-4; King Louis 
and, xxxvi, 13, 14, 15. 25, 78; 
piercenaries of, 45; overthrown by 
Pope Julius, 41 ; policy toward 
subject cities, 73; Pope on, xl, 
448; power of, before French in- 
vasion, xxxvi, 40; Shelley on, 
xii, 860-1; situation of, v, 347; 
in 1 6th century, xxvii, 411; trade 
of, X, 417; Wordsworth on, xii, 
691-2 
Venison, price of, x, 195-6 
Venner, Thomas, xxxiii, 237, 253 
Venta Cruz, Drake at, xxxiii, 184-5 



Ventana, Sierra de la, xxix, 119-22 
Ventidius, xii, 359, 360, 361; in 

Parthia, xxxiii, 11 6-1 7 
Ventidius, in All for Love, re- 
turns from East, xviii, 24-7; scene 
with Antony, 27-35; conversation 
with Antony on Octavius, 39-40; 
on Alexas, 40-1 ; on Cleopatra's 
gifts, 41-3; in meeting of Antony 
and Cleopatra, 44-9; advises An- 
tony to seek terms, 51-3; on An- 
tony's love, 55-6; brings Octavia 
to Antony, 57-61; in meeting of 
Dolabella and Cleopatra, 66-7, 69, 
^2'^ tells Antony of Dolabella's 
treachery, 73-8; with Antony 
after last defeat, 88-93; death, 94; 
Dryden on character of, 24 
Ventilation, need of, xxx, 172^ 
Ventricles, of the heart, xxxviii, 83, 
84, 85, 86-91, 93, 105, 138-9, 140, 
141, 142; right and left, 73-4, 
76-7 
Venulus, in the -^neid, xiii, 2^2, 

369-7i» Z^l-^ 

Venus, Adonis and, alluded to, iv, 
TZ'y born of the sea, xl, 373; 
Emerson on, fable of, v, 313; 
Mars's minion, xlvi, 426 note 15; 
mother of mirth, iv, 31; statue of, 
in Vatican, xxxi, 332; zone of, 
referred to, iv, 381 (see also 
Aphrodite) 

Venus, in ^neid, seeks Jove in 
Trojan's behalf, xiii, 83-4; meet- 
ing with ^neas, 86-9; persuades 
Cupid to enter form of Ascanius, 
98-9; warns ^neas to fly, 123-4; 
plans marriage of ^neas and 
Dido, 159-61; seeks Neptune in 
^neas's behalf, 208; seeks aid of 
Vulcan for ^neas, 284-5; brings 
^neas arms, 292; complains to 
Jove, 327-8; cures ^neas of kis 
wound, 409 

Venus, the planet, Dante on, xx, 
148 note 3, 258; Dante's third 
Heaven, 316-17 

"Venus de Medici's," Burke on the, 
xxiv, 102 

Veracity, in art, v, 314... 

Veragua, town of, xxxiii, 188 

Verania, wife of Piso, Regulus and, 
ix, 238 

Verbal Nouns, Johnson on, xxxix, 
199 

Verbosity, Montaigne on, xxxii, 46 

Vercingetorix, xii, 296, 298 ^ 

Verdi, Francesco and Antonio, xxxi, 
58 note 

Verdicts, special, in Massachusetts, 
xliii, 75 (31) 

Vere, Baron, character of, v, 400 

Verecundus, grammarian of Milan, 
vii, 132; kindness and conversion 
of, 146-7 



432 



GENERAL INDEX 



Vergentorix, xiJ, 296 and note, 298 
Vergezio, Giovanni, xxxi, 10 1 note 5 
Vergilia, wife of Coriolanus, xii, 

185, 186 
Vergilius, Caius, Cicero and, xii, 

253 
Verginius, Rufus, Pliny on, ix, 221-3 
Vermilion, Miss, in SchooIv for 

Scandal, xviii, 129 
Verneuil, M. de, on changes of 

species, xi, 374*5 
Vernon, Franklin and, i, 32, 34, 35, 

54» 63 
Veronese, Hugo on, xxxix, 369 
Verres, Cicero and, ix, 3; prosecu- 
tion of, xii, 230-1 
Verrocchio, Andrea del, xxxi, 418 
Verse, in the drama, Hugo on, xxxix, 
388, 390-3; Pope on advantages 
of, xl, 417; Sidney on, xxvii, 15, 
34-5; Voice and, sisters, iv, 41 
Verses, Locke on making of, xxxvii, 
159-60, 173; James Mill on making 
of, XXV, 15 
Versification, Montaigne on, xxxii, 

63-4; Shelley on, xxvii, 350 
Versifying, Sidney on, xxvii, 52-3 
Vertumnus, and Pomona, iv, 273 
Verulam (see Bacon, Francis) 
Vesalius, on the heart, xxxviii, 83 
Vespasian, death of, iii, 10; empire 
foretold to, 96; Jerusalem and, 
xxxviii, 32; miracles of, xxxvii, 
407-8; night business of, ix, 243; 
Pascal on miracles of, xlviii, 286 
(816); Tacitus on, iii, 32; times 
of, ii, 219 (32) 
Vesper, Keats on, xii, 904 
Vespucci, Amerigo, Account of His 
First Voyage, xliii, 29-46; Emer- 
son on, v, 407; life of, xliii, 29 
note 
X'espucci, Giorgio Antonio, xliii, 30 
Vesta, reference to, iv, 35 
\'estal Virgins, office of, ix, 265 note 
Vestiges of Creation, xi, 13-14 
Vesuvius, Pliny on the eruption of, 

ix, 298-301, 303-5 
Veto, presidential, xliii, 195-6 
Vetus, and Caesar, xii, 27y 
Vexation, Eliphaz on, xliv, 79 (2) ; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 204 (16), 
239 (27), 250 (38).. 
Vibius, and Cicero, xn, 252-3 
Vibration, frequency of, defined, 

XXX, 264 
Vibrios, xxxviii, 345-59» S^SSy bu- 
tyric, 343-4; Pasteur on, 338-40 
V'ibullius, Cicero on, ix, 120-1 
Vice, Augustine, St.,, on, vii, 60-1; 
beginnings of, xxxiv, 208; Burns 
on wretchedness of, vi, 338; de- 
grees of, xxvi, 166; Emerson on, 
V, 71, 104; Epictetus on, ii, 182 
(3)* 183 (10); false arguments of , 
iv, 66; Franklin on, i, 91, 96; 
Hobbes on, xxxiv, 429; Jonson on 



knowledge of, xl, 301; knowledge 
of, Mrs. Herbert on, xv, 380; 
knowledge of, necessary to virtue, 
iii, 212-13; Lessing on worldly 
retribution of, xxxii, 201-2; Locke 
on knowledge of, xxxvii, 80-1; not 
natural to man, xxxiv, 19 1-2, 277- 

82, 287; nature opposed to, v, 28, 
loi; necessary to virtue, iii, 330; 
Pascal on, xlviii, 45 (102); Pope 
on, xl, 431; Pope on supposed 
prosperity of, 443*9; prosperity 
and, Bacon on, iii, 17; its own 
punishment, xvii, 33; public opin- 
ion and, xxvii, 397-8; Rousseau 
on punishment of, xxxiv, 273; 
Scriptural warrant for, xv, 263-5; 
taught to children, xxxvii, 30-3; 
Taine on, xxxix, 441; Whitman 
on punishment of, 426-7 

Vice-President (United States), 
amended method of election, xliii, 
209-10; former manner of elec- 
tion, 199 (2, 3); irnpeachment, 
202 (4) ; president of Senate, 194 
(4) ; succession to presidency, 200 
(5), 209 (12); qualifications, 210; 
term of office, 199 (i) 

Vices and Virtues, game of, xxxvi, 
1 90- 1 

Vich Ian Vohr, v, 215 

Vicissitude, Arabian inscriptions on, 
xvi, 3i5-i9» 326-7, 33^-2,^^ 334-6; 
Browne on, of states, iii, 282; 
Carlyle on, xxv, 366-7; Casaubon 
on, xxxix, 77; Emerson on, v, 155- 
6; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 219 
(33. 36), 231 (23), 234 (4), 236 
(15); Montaigne on, xxxii, 5-6; 
Raleigh on, xxxix, 74, loo-i, 103 

Vicissitude, Ode on Pleasures of, 
xl, 472-3 

Vicissitude of Things, Essay on 
the, iii, 143-7 

Vicorati, Francesco da, xxxi, 7 

Victorinus, Augustine, St., on, vii, 

.125-7 
Vicuna, Darwin on the, xxix, 380^ 
Vides, governor of Cumana, xxxiii, 

343, 344 
Vigil Strange I Kept, xlii, 1485-6 
Vigne, Pierro delle, in Dante's Hell, 

XX, 56 and note 
Vigo, Drake at, xxxiii, 240-1 
Vigo, John de, xxxviii, 11 
Viguiere, Pauline de, v, 315 
Vijayuttara, the conch, xlv, 632 
Village Blacksmith, The, xlii, 

.1323 
Villagers, Thoreau on, xxvlii, 413 
Villars, Marquis de, xxxviii, 35, 39 
Villemarque, M. de la, xxxii, 145, 

175 
Villiers, Charles, Mill on, xxv, 54, 

83, 84, 85 

Villiers, George, Mill on, xxv, 84, 85 
Villiers, George, ist Duke of Buck- 



GENERAL INDEX 



453 



ingham. Hi, s; Voltaire on, xxxiv, 
150; Wotton on, v, 421 
Viluers, George, 2nd Duke, Claren- 
don on, V, 362; his house at Clief- 
den, xxxix, 1 60 note i ; Voltaire 
on, xxxiv, 150 
Villon, Arnold on, xxviii, 80-1 
Vilmund, lover of Borgny, xlix, 457, 

458 

Vinci, Leonardo da, xxvii, 293; his 
cartoon of capture of Piso, xxxi, 
24 and note; Cellini on, 374-5; 
Guido and, xxxix, 450 

Vincula, San Pietro ad, xxxvi, 29, 30 

Vindicianus, St. Augustine and, vii, 
49-50, 108 

Vindictiveness, Penn on, i, 356 (185) 
(see Revenge) 

Vine, Cicero on culture of the, ix, 
65-6 

Vineyards, profits of, x, 165-6; value 
of, 163-4 

Vingi, the messenger, xlix, 364, 365, 
368 

ViNLAND, The Voyages to, xliii, 
5-22 ; remarks on, 1, 22 

Vintner, in Faustus, xix, 227-8 

Violence, punishment of, in Hell, 
XX, 47, 51-73 

Violets, for modesty, vi, 431; 
Wotton on, xl, 295 

Violins, Dryden on, xl, 399 

Viper, Harrison on the, xxxv, 362-3 

Virbius, son of Hippolytus, xiii, 
269-70 

Virgil, JEneid of, xiii, 75-428; an 
astrologer, xxxix, 167; Augustine, 
St., on study of, vii, 16-17; 
Augustus and, xiii, 18-19; xxxix, 
171; on generation of bees, xxxv, 
365; birthplace of, xx, 220 note 4; 
body of, removed to Naples, 155 
note; Burke on, xxiv, 75; Burke 
on his figure of Fame, 57; Burke 
on his picture of Hell, 63; Burke 
on his picture of Vulcan's forge, 
143; Caxton on, xxxix, 26; Cow- 
ley on, xxvii, 65; Dante's guide 
to Hell and Purgatory, xx, 7-13; 
in Dante*s Limbo, 173; Dryden 
on, xiii, 14-69;^ xl, 406; the 
Georgics of, xxxix, 314; Homer 
and, xiii, 6; xxxix, 164-6; Hugo 
on, 382; Italicus .and, ix, 247; 
life and works, xiii, 3-4; Locke 
on, xxxvii, 168; machinery of, 
xiii, 48-52; reputed a magician in 
Middle Ages, xix, 223 note; Mon- 
taigne on, xxxii, 92; morals of 
his poem, xiii, 19-39; Raleigh on, 
xxxix, 119; a republican at heart, 
xiii, 17-18; on rustic life, xxvii, 
72-3; Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 136; 
Scaliger on, xxvii, 54; Shelley on, 
361; Sidney on Georgics of, 14; 
similes of, xiii, 42-4; Spenser 



on, xxxix, 65; times of, xiii, 16- 

17; Wordsworth on figure of, 
xxxix, 317, 319 

Virgil, To, by Tennyson, xiii, 
105 1-2; editor's remarks on, 1, 20 

Virgilianse, Sortes, xxvii, lo-ii 

Virgilius, Browne on, iii, 292 

Virginia, Drayton on, xl, 231 ; 
Quakers in, i, 288; Winthrop on 
patent of, xliii, 93 

Virginia, First Charter of, xliii, 
51-61 

Virginia, Massachusetts to, xiii, 
1419-24 

Virginian Voyage, To the, xl, 
230-2 

Virginity, Paul, St., on, xlv, 510 
(25-6, 34), 511 i27)\ Milton on, 
iv, 58, 67 

Virginius, Flavius, story of, ix, 22^ 
note 

Virgins, To the, xl, 345 

Virgoe, Thomas, xxxviii, 165-6 

Virgularia Patagonica, Darwin on, 
xxix, 111-12 

Virnes, Christopher de, Cervantes 
on, xiv, 57 

Virtue, adversities help unto, vii, 312 
(2); in ambition and in authority, 
iii, 32; Augustine, St., on, vii, 
60; Bacon on, iii, 17, 104, 105-6; 
beauty and, 111-12; Browne on, 
320, 340; Burke on beauty in, 
xxiv, 95-6; Burns on, vi, 338; 
cannot change at once, xxvi, 166; 
Channing on, xxviii, 334; Cicero 
on, ix, 25-6, 37, 41, 44, 48; the 
company of, ii, 182 (2); Confu- 
cius on highest, xliv, 21 {27)^ 36 
(19); consists in comparison, 
xxxiv, 362; the chief aim in edu- 
cation, xxxvii, 57-8, 82, 83, 163, 
184; Emerson on, v, 26-9, 71, 77^ 
139, 162-3, 289; an object of envy, 
ix, 201; Epictetus on, ii, 140 (66), 
161 (119); Epicurus on, xxxvii, 
423; examples of, ii, 297 (26); 
excessive, xlviii, 121 (353), 122 
(357); fortune and, xxxi, 12; 
Franklin on, i, 83-4, 90 note 91 ; 
Franklin's Art of, 90-1 ; Frank- 
lin's partv of, S)3-5; alone is free, 
ii, 183 (10); iv, 72'y friendship 
and, ix, 15, 18, 22^ 26, 37, 42; 
happiness and, Pope on, xl, 443- 
50; the hereafter, belief in, and, 
iii, 312, 317-18; Hindu ideas of, 
xlv, 858, 870, 880, 881; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 429; Hume on stand- 
ards of, xxvii, 216-17; Hume on 
teaching of, xxxvii, 305; immor- 
tality, belief in, and, xxxvi, 241, 
242; intellectual, xxxiv, 362-3; 
intrinsic worth of, xxxii, 366; Jon- 
son on, xl, 301; Kant on pure, 
xxxii, 357 note; knowledge of 



434 



GENERAL INDEX 



world and, xxxvii, 54; in Latin 
equivalent to courage, xii, 153; 
learning and, xxxvii, 136; Locke 
on, 44, 123, 126; love of, natural 
to man, xxxiv, 277-S2; loveable^ 
ness of, xxiv, 94-5; Machiavelli 
on, xxxvi, 53; Machiavelli on ap- 
pearance of, 60-1 ; Marcus Aure- 
lius on, ii, 237 (17); measurement 
of, xlviii, 121 (352); Milnes on 
pleasures of, xlii, 1098-9; Milton 
on, iv, 56, 62, 123, 179, 375; Mil- 
ton on study of, iii, 252, 254; 
modesty and, ix, 262; Montaigne 
on, xxxii, 9-10, 52-3; More on, 
xxxvi, 208, 209, 210, 215, 216; 
nature leagued with, v, 10 1-2; no 
penalty to, 105; not mere absence 
of vice, xxvii, 277; not virtue if 
she tumble, xviii, 202; ostentation 
of, ii, 177 (176) ; Pascal on maxims 
of, xlviii, 14 (20); passion and, 
xl, 430; Penn on complete, i, 375; 
pleasure in seeing, ii, 244 (48); 
Plutarch on, xii, 86; Plutarch on 
contemplation of, 37-8; Pope on 
vice and, xl, 431; popular idea of, 
V, 67; pure, tests of, xxxii, ;i27- 
34; quotations on, i, 86-7; "reason 
in practice," xxxii, 130; refine- 
ment and, 250, 269; reward of, 
xxxiv, 272; reward of, Emerson 
on, v, 27, 90; reward of, Jonson 
on, xl, 305; reward of, Lessing 
on, xxxii, 201-2; reward of, Pliny 
on, ix, 202-3; reward of, Rous- 
seau on, xxxiv, 270; its own re- 
ward, ii, 163 (126), 256 (73); iii, 
312; xxxix, 427-8; xlv, 809, 810; 
riches and, iii, 92; Rousseau on 
grounds of, xxxiv, 284-6; Rous- 
seau on natural, 190-5; sensuous 
and ascetic, xxviii, 175-9; Shake- 
speare on, xlvi, 108; Sidney on 
teachers of, xxvii, 17-28; Socrates 
on, ii, 17, 58, iii; Taine on, 
xxxix, 441 ; Tennyson on wages 
of, xlii, 1039; through love and 
fear, xl, 303; trial necessary to, 
ii, 156 (106); iii, 212-13, 218-19; 
unconsciousness of true, xxv, 339- 
41; vice necessary to, iii, 330; 
Wordsworth on, xxxix, 333 (see 
also Morality) 

Virtue, by Herbert, xl, 351-2 

Virtues, the seven, xx, 173 notes 2 
and 3 

Virtuous Young Lady, To a, iv, 
80-1 

Vis Inertiae, Hume on, xxxvii, 365 
note 

Vis Viva, defined, xxx, 195; meas- 
ure of, 197 note; transformed to 
weight, 197 

Visakha, story of, xlv, 770-98 

Visconti, Galeazzo de', xx, 179 notes 
S and 7 



Vishnu, xlv, 844; in the Bhagavad- 

GiTA, 800 
Vishnu Sarma, quoted, v, 302 
Vision, Burke on method of, xxiv, 

115 
Vision, A, by Burns, vi, 513-14 
Vision, The, by Burns, vi, 180-90 
Vision of Mirza, Addison's, xxvii, 

77-81 
Visions, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 328-9; 

Walton on, xv, 341-2 
Vitaliano del Dente, xx, 73 note 6 
Vitelli, Burke on the, xxiv, 282; 

Caesar Borgia and, xxxvi, 28, 33, 

48 
Vitelli, Niccolo, at Citta di Castello, 

xxxvi, 74 
Vitelli, Paolo, xxxvi, 26, 31, 44 
Vitellius, Mucianus and, iii, 148 
Vitellozzo, Machiavelli on, xxxvi, 

32, 33 
Vitet, M., on Chanson de Roland, 

xxviii, 71 
Vitruvius, on architecture, v, 182; 

xxxi, 8 
Vittore, Father, in The Betrothed, 

xxi, 606 
Vivian, Christian king, xlix, 208 
Vivien, and Merlin, xxxii, 160 
Vivien's Song, xlii, 1006-7 
Vivisection, Harvey on, xxxviii, 79; 

in New Atlantis, iii, 184 
Vocation, Bacon on choosing, for 

children, iii, 21; content in one's, 

ii, 219 (31); Epictetus on choice 

of, 155 (104); Pascal on choice 

of, xlviii, 41 (97), 48 (116), 49 

("7) 
Voconius, Cicero on, xii, 248 
Vogler, Abt, Browning's, xlii, 1 144-8 
Voice, power ^ of human, i, 107-8; 

verse and, sisters, iv, 41 
Voiture, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 148 
Voland, the Devil called, xix, 168 
Volcanic Bombs, xxix, 519-20 
Volcanoes, as dependent on changes 
of surface, xxix, 506-7; earth- 
quakes and, relations of, 329; 
Geikie on, xxx, 348; simultaneous 
eruption of, xxix, 309-10 
Volition, Rousseau on, xxxiv, 256 

(see also Will) 
Volscians, Coriolanus with the, xii, 
173-5; final defeat, 191; war of 
Rome against the, 158-9; second 
war with Rome, 177-88 
Volsung, son of Rerir, xlix, 278-9, 

280-2 
VoLSUNGA Saga, xlix, 275-381; Pro- 
logue IN Verse, 272-3; remarks 
on the, 266-9 
Volsungs, names of, xlix, 270; songs 

dealing with, 383-464 
Volsungs and Niblunss, story of 
the, xlix, 265-381; editor's re- 
marks on, 1, 21 
Voltaic Batteries, xxx, 78, 214; ex- 



GENERAL INDEX 



435 



amples of action of, 134-5; power 
of, 131 
Voltaire, Carlyle on, xxv, 438; on 
circumstances, xxviii, 454; Cor- 
neille and, xxxix, 450; on Greek 
drama, 382; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 294; 
on Horace, xxxii, 138-9; Lessing 
and, xxvi, 286; Letters on the 
English, xxxiv, 65-162; remarks 
on Letters of, 1, 25, 35; life and 
works, xxxiv, 64; Sainte-Beuve 
on, xxxii, 128, 137; on Shake- 
speare, xxxix, 223, 235, 238; on 
systems, 395; on taste, 404; he 
Temple du Gout, 404 
Volterra, Daniello da, xxxi, 453 note 
Volterra, Niccolaio, xxxi, 19 
Voltimand, in Hamlet, xlvi, 93-4, 

1 18-19 
Volumnia, mother of Coriolanus, xii, 
155; begs him to desist from war, 
185-8 
Volusus, in the -(Eneid, xiii, 378 
Von Baer, on bees, xi, 386; on em- 
bryos, 479; on organization, 135 
Vopiscus, name of, xii, 162 
Vortigern, Hengist and, v, 286 
Voss, on Milton, xxxix, 336 
Voters, qualifications of, v, 251-2 
Voting, right of, in United States, 
xliii, 211 (see also Elective Fran- 
chise) 
Vows, Dante on, xx, 303-6; Eccle- 
siASTES on, xliv, 345 (4-5) ; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 413-14; Shakespeare on, 
xlvi, 103, 104 
Voyage of^ the Beagle, Darwin's, 
xxix; editor's remarks on, 1, 46, 

Voyages, Darwin on sea, xxix, 527-9 

Voyages and Travels, xxxiii 

Voyages and Travels, books dealing 
with, 1, 52-3 

Vulcan, in the ^neid, xiii, 285-7; 
forge of, 286; forge of, Burke on, 
xxiv, 143; lameness of, v, 311; 
sons of, IV, 64 

Vulgarity, Confucius on, xliv, 8 
(14), 13 (11), 14 (16), 25 (36), 
41 (16), 46 (23, 25, 26), 47 (7), 
49 (24), 52 (i), 54 (20), 55 (33), 
57 (8); Ruskin on, xxviii, 116 

Vulpius, Christiane, wife of Goethe, 
xix, 3 

Vultures, Harrison on, xxxv, 357-8 

Vyasa, Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 136 

Wacarima, Mount, xxxiii, 383 

Wace, Robert, xxxii, 168 

Wadsworth, Gen., at Gettysburg, 
xliii, 351 

Wage-earners, interest of, connected 
with general interests, x, 218 

Wager, Pascal on necessity of the, 
xlviii, 84-7 

Wages, affected by market fluctu- 
ations, X, 62-3 ; in by-employments, I 
124; relation to cost of living, 



78-82, 87-8, 90-2; defined, 55; de- 
pendent on state of society, 72-7, 
85-6; determination of, 58; deter- 
mined by competition, 68-72, 295; 
determined by time, hardship and 
skill, 50; in England (1772), i, 
318; tendency of, to equality, x, 
105; in exclusive trades, 66; in- 
dustry, relation of, to, 86-9; in- 
crease of money, effect of, on, 
296; inequalities of, due to gov- 
ernment interference, 126-50; 
natural inequalities of, 106-17; in 
novel trades, 121-2; population 
determined by, 83-5 ; price of com- 
modities, an element in, 50; prices 
affected by high, 103-4; profits 
and, confounded, 56-7, 118-19; 
proportion of, between different 
employments, 67; real, 82-3; regu- 
lation of, by law, 150-1; relation 
of, to rates of interest, 94-6; 
scarcity, 122; taxes on, 534-8; 
effect of taxes on consumption 
and, 542-3 

Wages, by Tennyson, xiii, 1039 

Waggoner, fable of the, xvii, 36 

Wagner, in Faust, xix, 27-9, 40-8 

Wagner, in Dr. Faustus, xix, 202, 
205-6, 210-12, 234, 236 

Wagner, Moritz, on isolation of 
species, xi, 116 

Waif, Proem to Longfellow's, 
xxviii, 391-2 

Wain, constellation of the, xx, 429; 
Homer on the, xxii, 78 

Wainfleet, William, xxxv, 402 

Wakan, xliii, 152 

Wakes, Luther on, church, xxxvi, 
324 

Waking, Locke on method of, 
xxxvii, 23-4 

Waldseemuller, Vespucci and, xliii, 
29 note 

Wales, agriculture of, xxxv, 326; 
bards of, xxvii, 10; Christianity 
in, xxxii, 181; education in 
(1848), xxviii, 160; lead mines 
of, xxxv, 340; literature of, xxxii, 
144-5, 150-70; realm of, Milton 
on, iv, 47; Renan on, xxxii, 143; 
soil of, xxxv, 324, 327 

Walid Ibn Mughairah, xlv, 890 note 
2, 909 note 

Walker, Mr., of the Times, v, 467 

Walking, Essay on, Thoreau's, 
xxviii, 405-38 

Wallace, A. R., Darwin and, xi, 
5-6, 21; on origin of species, 402 

Wallace, William, Burns on, vi, 93, 
147, 527, 183 

Walleechu, Indian god, xxix, 79-80 

Wallenstein, quoted, xxi, 490 

Waller, Edmund, Dryden on, xxxix, 
161, 171; poems by, xl, 366-7; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 147-50 



436 



GENERAL INDEX 



Walls, why less grand than colon- 
nades, xxiv, 119-20 

Walpurgis-Night, in Faust, xix, 161 
76; Dream, 176-84; remarks on, 6 

Walsh, William, Dryden on, xiii, 

431 

Walter, Count, in Song of Roi^and, 
xlix, 125, 146-7, 172-4 

Waltham, Thomas, at Otterburn, 
XXXV, 95 

Walton, Izaak, Life or Dr. Donne, 
XV, 327-74; Life of Herbert, 377- 
426; life and works, 326; Lives, 
editorial remarks on, 1, 33 

Walworth, Nicholas, xxxv, 67, 71, 
79, 80 

Waly, Waly, O, xl, 331-3 

Wamesut, town of, xliii, 154 

Wandering W11.LIE, vi, 482-3 

Wang-sun Chia, xliv, 10 note 6 

Want-wit, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 295 

Wanton, Madame, in Pilgrim's 
Progress, xv, 73, 190 

Wants, and pleasures, xli, 538 

Wanuretona, xxxiii, 368-9 

War(s), ancient and modern, iii, 84, 
147; Arjuna on, xlv, 803-4; bene- 
fit of, iii, 83; Blake on, xli, 603 
causes of, iii, 82-3; expenses, x 
468-71; fall of empires always ac 
companied by, iii, 146; improve 
ments in art of, v, 86; Goethe's 
Jetter on, xix, 252-3; Hindu 
teachings on, xlv, 808; Hobbes 
on causes and state of, xxxiv, 
404; Hobbes on desires that lead 
to, 385; a horrid ruthless fiend, 
xxvi, 380; judgment of God. i, 
246; justification of, iii, 52; Ma- 
chiavelli on preparation for, 
xxxvi, 50-2; maintenance of, x, 
338-42; Massinger on school of, 
xlvii, 829; Milton on, iv, 338-9. 
398; More on, xxxvi, 228; More 
on preparation for, 153-4; over- 
population a cause of, iii, 146; 
pleasure in distant, 8; provisions 
for, under the Confederation, 
xliii, 171-2, 174, 175; provisions 
for, under Constitution, 197 (11- 
16), 199 (3); Quaker attitude 
toward, i, 112-15, 198-200, 222, 
225-8; xxxiv, 69; readiness for, 
of different states of society, 
xxvii, 391-2; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
218; rules of, in treaty with 
Mexico, xliii, 324-6; Socrates on 
cause of, ii, 55; Tennyson on, 
xlii, 1054-5, 1067, 1096-7; true 
strength in, iii, 78; unjust, sup- 
port of, xxviii, 134-5; Voltaire on 
religious, xxxiv, 86; Washington 
on preparation for, xliii, 260-1 ; 
Woolman on, i, 263 

War of 1 812, Treaty of Peace, xliii, 
273-82 



Warbeck, Perkin, Bacon on, xxxiv, 
103 

Warburton, William, Lessing on, 
xxxii, 200; Johnson on, xxxix, 
250-1 ; on Shakespeare's plays, 
246, 247 

Ward, Nathaniel, xliii, 70 note 

Wardlaw, Henry, on the Scotch, 
xxxv, 286 

Ware, Rev. Henry, colleague of 
Emerson, v, 3 

Warfare, in Utopia, xxxvi, 228-37 

Wargny, Robert of, xxxv, 11 

Warner, Master, in Shoemaker's 
Holiday, xlvii, 461-2, 463-4 

Warrants, in Massachusetts, xliii, 
73 (21); in U. S., 207 (4) 

Warren, Henry Clarke, translator 
of Buddhist Writings, xlv, 587 

Warrenites, Mill on the, xxv, 164 

Warrior, The Happy, xli, 672-4 

Warton, on Thomson, xxxix, 341-2 

Warwick, Earl of, in Crecy cam- 
paign, xxxv, 8, 9, 18, 23, 29; at 
Poitiers, 42, 47, 53, 55 

Warwick, Earl of, in Edward IV's 
reign, v, 420 

Warwick, Richard Beauchamp, Earl 
of, V, 419 

Warwick, in Edward II, in quarrel 
with Gaveston, xlvi, 9, 11-13, i4' 
16; consents to his return, 19-22, 
23, 24; on Gaveston's return, 30- 
2; in attack on Tynemouth, 36; 
capture of Gaveston, 39-43; iir 
battle, 49; death, 50-1 

Washington, George, Commander- 
in-Chief, xliii, 180; Emerson on, 
V, 132, 191, 222\ Farewell Ad' 
dress, xliii, 250-66; First In- 
augural Address, 241-5; not a 
great reader, xxviii, 350; presi- 
dent of^ Constitutional Conven- 
tion, xliii, 192 note; sweet in his 
grave, v, 135 

Washington, Ode on Birthday of, 
vi, 526 

Wasps, in Brazil, xxix, 45-6 

Wastefulness, Confucius on, xliv, 
25 (35); Locke on, xxxvii, 108, 
109; Mohammed on, xlv, 926 

Wat Tyler's Rebellion, xxxv, 6i- 
82; Chaucer in, xxxix, 171 

Wat Ye Wha's in Yon Town, vi, 

555 
Watchall, in New Way to Pay 
Old Debts, xlvii, 825-7, 832, 841 
Watches, fall in price of, x, 212 
Watches, ship's, xxiii, 17-18 
Watchful, the porter, in Pilgrim's 

Progress, xv, 49-51, 22^, 2^2 
Watchful, the shepherd, in Pil- 
grim's Progress, xv, 125-8, 2^7 
Water, action of iron on, xxx, 124- 
7; decomposition of, 43-8, 131 
note, 136-40; different states of, 
119-23; Faraday on properties of» 



GENERAL INDEX 



437 



8-10; freezing-point of, 242-4; 
Helmholtz on decomposition of, 
212-14; presence of, tested by 
potassium, 118, 124, 145-6; pro- 
duced by combustion, 117-19,131; 
weight of, 52 

Water of Paradise, in New Atlantis, 
iii, 283 

Water-carriage, Adam Smith on, x, 
25-6 

Water Companies, Smith on, x, 483, 
484 

Water-Fowl, On Scaring Some, vi, 
300 

Waterfowl, To a, xlii, 127 1-2 

Water-hogs, Darwin on, xxix, 60-1 

Water-power, Helmholtz on, xxx, 
188-90, 194 

Watson, Joseph, i, 38-40 

Watts, Isaac, hymns by, xlv, 549, 
550; True Greatness, xl, 408 

Waukrife Minnie, vi, 382 

Waverley Novels, Carlyle on, xxv, 

455-9 

Waves, Kelvin on, xxx, 289 

Wayland, Germanic Vulcan, xlix, 18 
note 5 

Wazilah, xlv, 1019 note 

We are Seven, xli, 683-5 

We Must be Free or Die, xH, 
690-1 

Weak, to be, is miserable, iv, 94 

Weakness, as cause of beauty, xxiv, 
99; no excuse, iv, 439 

Wealhtheow, Queen, xlix, 22-3, 38- 
40, 66 

Wealth, aristocracy and, v, 211; 
Burns on, vi, 41; Channing on 
distinctions of, xxviii, 356; Con- 
fucius on, xliv, 13 (5), 23 (15), 
27 (13). 44 (9)» 47 (11); con- 
tentment and, xli, 535; death and, 
xvi, 317-18, 327, 335-6; Emerson 
on hunger for, v, 245 ; Goldsmith 
on accumulation of, xli, 522, 528; 
growth of, not necessarily bene- 
ficial, xxviii, 375; ignorance of, 
the best riches, xli, 523 ; land as 
source of (see Agricultural Sys- 
tem); Lowell on, xxviii, 477,484; 
Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 261 (33); 
a means, not an end, xxviii, 230; 
measurable by labor it can buy, 
X, 36-7 ;_ Mill on production and 
distribution of, xxv, 158; Milton 
on, iv, 386-7; money as, x, 238-9, 
326-47; Morris on real, xlii, 1243; 
national, on what dependent, x, 
5-6; natural progress of, 319-24; 
obligations of, i, 412-14; old age 
and,^ ix, 48; Pascal on private, 
xlviii, 383; Pascal on pursuit of, 
150 (436), 317 (906); Pascal on 
respect for, 113 (324), 118; on 
pride in, 156 (460); poverty and, 
Carlyle on, xxv, 350-1; Penn on 
private, i, 409 (221); production 



and distribution of (see Produc- 
tion, Distribution) ; progress of, 
dependent on distribution, x, 57; 
proportioned to neat, not gross, 
revenue, 234; public and private, 
connected, 351-2; unused, fable 
of, xvii, 37; Walton on, xv, 333; 
Woolman on, i, 188 (see also 
Capital, Riches) 

Wealth of Nations, Adam Smith's, 
x; remarks on, 3-4; 1, 49 

Weapons, change and return of, 
iii, 146-7 

Weariness, Pascal on, xlviii, 51 

(131) 
Weary Pund o* Tow, vi, 458 
Weather, influence of moon on, xxx, 

313 
Weathercock, in Faust, xix, 179-80 
Weaver, Chaucer's, xl, 21 note 191 
Weavers, To the. Gin Ye Go, vi, 

312 
Webb, Gen., at Gettysburg, xliii, 

407, 408, 411 
Webb, George, Franklin on, i, 53-4, 

60, 62 
Weber, Mill on Oberon of, xxv, 95 
Webster, John, Call for the Robin, 

xl, 331; Duchess of Malfi, xlvii, 

721-816; Hazlitt on, xxvii, 291; 

life and works, xlvii, 720 
Webster-Ashburton Treaty, xliii, 

299-308 
Wedded Love, Milton on, iv, 176 
Wedding Bells, Poe on, xlii, 1284 
Weddings, Webster on secret, xlvii, 

731 
Wee Johnie, Epitaph on, vi, 230 
Wee Willie Gray, vi, 550 
Weeping, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 356; 

Hunt on, xxvii, 299 
Weevil, Harrison on the, xxxv, 297 
Wehaloosing, Indian town, i, 278-9 
Wei, King of, xliv, 23 note 3, 

43 (3) 
Wei-sheng Kao, xliv, 17 (23) 
Wei-sheng Mou, xliv, 50 (34) 
Weight, measured by inertia, xxx, 
315-16; as a motive force, 186- 
90; transformed to ves viva, 197; 
used to produce electricity, 218 
Weights, English and metric system 
of, xxx, 265; regulation of, xliii, 
174, 196 (5) 
Weiler, Jost von, in Wilhelm Tell, 

xxvi, 401, 411, 412 
Well I Remember, xli, 925 
Wellborn, in New Way to Pay Old 
Debts, xlvii, at Tapwell's, 819-22; 
with Allworth, 823-5; at Lady All- 
worth's, 831-";; Overreach's plot to 
ruin, 837; at Overreach's, with Mar- 
rail, 838-40; with Marrall at Lady 
Allworth's, 841-4, 846; with Mar- 
rall after dinner, 847-8; thought 
to be engaged to Lad}'^ Allworth, 
S49-50; at Overreach's with Lady 



iJ8 



GENERAL INDEX 



Allworth, 863, 864, 866, 867; con- 
ference with Overreach, 867-8; 
Tapwcll and Froth on, 876-7; 
creditors and, 877-80; advised by 
Marrall, 880-1; Lady Allworth on, 
885-6; with Lovell and Lady All- 
worth, 887-8; quarrel with Over- 
reach, 889-93; in final scene, 894, 
895, 896-9 ^ 

Welfare, Michael, 1, 115 

Wellington, Duke of, on Briscoll, v, 
444; Cintra affair and, 391; Em- 
erson on, 390; fear of public cred- 
itors, 384; on the life-guards, 396; 
weighed his soldiers, 371 

Wellington, Mount, Darwin on, 
xxix, 473 

Wells, Darwin on ebbing, xxix, 483 

Wells, Dr. W. C, and idea of nat- 
ural selection, xi, 11-12 

Welsh, Jane Baillie, wife of Car- 
lyle, XXV, 320-30, 331-2 

Welsh (see Celtic Races) 

Wen, Duke, xliv, 48 (16) 

Wen, King, xliv, 25 note, 27 note 8 

Wenceslaus, king of Bohemia, Dante 
on, XX, 175 and note 6, 369 note 
10 

Weohstan, xlix, 79 

Wer-wolves, xlix, 287 note 

Were My Love Yon Lilac Fair, 
vi, 494 

Were-gild, xlix, 295 note 

Werena My Heart Light, xl, 409 

Werner, of Attinghausen, in Wil- 
HELM Tell (see Attinghausen) 

Werner, Paul, in Minna von Barn- 
helm, lends money to Tellheim, 
xxvi, 292-3 ; with Just at the inn, 
298-301; the landlord and, 320-2; 
with Franziska, 322-3; plots to 
give Tellheim money, 324; with 
Tellheim, 324-9; at meeting of 
Franziska and Tellheim, 329, 330- 
i» 332; with Franziska alone, 332; 
announces Tellheim's coming, 340; 
lends money to Tellheim, 349-51; 
returns with money, 362; recon- 
ciliation with Tellheim, 365; with 
Franziska, 366 

Werni, in Wilhelm Tell, xxvi, 
371-6 

Wert Thou in the Cauld Blast, 

vi, 591 

Wesley, Charles, hymns by, xlv, 
572-s 

Wessels, Capt., at Gettysburg, xliii, 
396, 403 

West, Thoreau on the, xxviii, 416- 
21 

West Indies, absence of atolls in, 
xxix, 506; Columbus on discovery 
of, xliii, 22-8; origin of name of, 
X, 418; Raleigh on disadvantages 
of, xxxiii, 390, 392; zoology of 
the, xxix, 144 

West Wind, C)de to the, xli, 856-7 



Westbrook, Harriet, wife of Shel- 
ley, xviii, 272 
Westminster Abbey, Addison's, 

xxvii, 82-5 
Westminster Abbey, On the Tombs 

IN, xl, 327-8 
Westminster Bridge, Upon, xli, 689 
Westminster Review, The, xxv, 62-8, 

86-7; combined with London Re- 

view, 129 ^ 
Westwood, on insects, xi, 73 
Wet Sheet, A, and a Flowing Sea, 

xli, 803 
Wha is that at My Bower-door, 

vi, 51-2 
Whales, Darwin on Greenland, xi, 

236-40; jumping out of water, 

xxix, 239 note 
Wha'll be King but Charlie, xli, 

578-9 
Whappet, Harrison on the, xxxv, 

373-4 
Wharton, Marquis of, Addison and, 

xxvii, 1 70- 1 
What Can a Young Lassie Do, vi, 

430 
What Guile is This, xl, 254 
Whately, Mill on, xxv, 144 
Wheat, parable of the, xv, 208 
Wheatley, Mr., editor of Pepys, 

xxviii, 295 
Wheels, toothed, considered as levers, 

XXX, 192-3 
Whelks, the heart in, xxxviii, 137-8 
When the Assault was Intended 

TO the City, iv, 80 
When I Have Borne, xli, 693 
When the Kye Comes Hame, xli, 

783-5 , 

When Lilacs Last in the Door- 
yard, xlii, 1497-1505 

When Lovely Woman Stoops, xli, 

517 
When She Cam* Ben She Bobbed, 

vi, 459 
When We Two Parted, xli, 807-8 
Whenas in Silks, xl, 346 
Where are the Joys I Have Met, 

vi, 505 
Where the Bee Sucks, xl, 272 
Where Lies the Land, xlii, 1168 
Whewell, William, controversy with 

Mill, xxv, 145; on general laws, 

xi, i; Mill on, xxv, 134-5 
Whiddon, Jacob, xxxiii, 313, 323, 

326, 346, 347, 349, 370, 371 
Whig Party, English, James Mill 

on, xxv, 6/L 
Whigs, Awa*, vi, 381 
White, Henry, xxxiii, 338, 255 
White, Joseph, Woolman on, 1^ 235, 

244, 304 
White, Joseph Blanco, To Night, 

xli, 938 
White Rose, A, xlii, 1246 
Whitefield, Rev. George, 1, 105-8; 

building erected for, 105, 118 



GENERAL INDEX 



439 



Whitefoord, Sir John, Lines to, 
vi, 427 

Whitman, Walt, life of, xxxix, 409 
note; poems by, xlii, 1483-1508; 
Preface to Leaves of Grass, 
xxxix, 409-32; Preface of, edi- 
torial remarks on, 3; 1, 56 

Whipping, in early Massachusetts, 
xliii, T7 (43) ; Locke on, of chil- 
dren, xxxvii, 38-9, 42, 43, 59, 64- 
6, 69-70, 71-3, 99-100 

Whisky, Burns on, vi, 154, 170-1 

Whistle, The, vi, 384-6 

Whistle and I'll Come to You, 
My Lad, vi, 499 

Whistle 0*er the Lave O't, vi, 368 

Whiston, on comets, xxxiv, 121 

Whitsunday, xv, 409 

Whitsunday Island, xxix, 491 

Whittier, John Greenleaf, poems by, 
xlii, 1414-41 

Wholesale Trade, why smaller profits 
in, X, 119 

Wholesaling, capital used in, x, 304, 
306, 310 

Wholesome, Tribulation, in the Al- 
chemist, his dealings with the 
Alchemist, xlvii, 562; scene with 
Ananias, 567-8; with Subtle, 568- 
73; returns with Ananias, 621, 
630-1, 633 

Why so Pale and Wan, xl, 363-4 

Why, Why Tell the Lover, vi, 573 

Wickedness, Asaph on, xliv, 22,^ (3- 
12, 17-20); Bildad on, 100 (5-21); 
Buddha on expiation of, xlv, 687- 
90; David on, xliv, 4-6, 185 (16, 
21), 189 (i, 2), 190 (9-38), 217 
(i-ii); EccLESiASTES on, 348 (17), 
349 (11-14), 350 (2); Eliphaz on, 
96 (20-35); future punishment of, 
vii, 242-4; xxxiv, 272, 273; harms 
only the doer, ii, 2^6 (55); Job 
on, xliv, 86 (24), 91 (6), 105 (7- 
33), no (2-12), 114 (13-23), 120 
(3); Kempis on, vii, 254 (i); not 
free, ii, 166 (136); "the path of," 
xl, 78; prayer for overthrow of, 
xliv, 155-7; Raleigh on punish- 
ment of, xxxix, 73-93; righteous- 
ness contrasted with, xliv, 1^7, 
236-8, 241 (10); is weakness, iv, 
439; Zophar on, xliv, 103 (5-29) 

Widow Bird, A, xli, 870 

Widow's Mite, xliv, 414 (1-4) 

Wife of Bath, in Canterbury Tales, 
xl, 23-4; Dryden on the, xxxix, 
174; prologue of, 179 
' Wife, The Devoted, xlv, 708-11 
> Wife of Usher's Well, xl, 81-2 

Wight, O. W., translator of Pascal, 
' xlviii 

Wiglaf, xHx, 78-86, 87, 92 

Wikiri, Raleigh on the, xxxiii, 381, 
387 

Wilberforce, Samuel, xxv, 84 

Wild Ass, in Job, xliv, 137 



Wild-head, in Pilgrim's Progress, 
XV, 299 

Wild Swans, The, xvii, 283-98 

Wildness, Thoreau on, xxviii, 421-9 

Wilfrid, Bishop, and the slaves, v, 
441 

Wilfulness, Shakespeare on, xlvi, 

248 
Wilhelm Meister, Carlyle on, xxv, 
396-9; Wordsworth on, v, 337 

Wilhelm Tell, Schiller's, xxvi, 369- 
474; remarks on, 368 

Wilkinson, editor of Swedenborg, 
Emerson on, v, 459 

Will, absolute and conditional, xx, 
302; autonomy of the (see Au- 
tonomy of the Will); belief and, 
xlviii, 42 (99); beliefs of the, 
406-7; Coleridge on the, v, 332; 
defined, xxxii, 377; freedom of 
the (see Free Will); Hobbes on 
the, xxxiv, 357-8; Hume on power 
of the, xxxvii, 357-6i, 363, 365-6; 
inferior to the soul, v, 144; Kant 
on absolute value of the, xxxii, 
323-34» 368, 370; Marcus Aure- 
lius on the, li, 235 (8); obliga- 
tions of the, xxxii, 344-62; power 
of the, V, 301; reason and, xxxii, 
343; Rousseau on the, xxxiv, 256; 
Woolman on human, i, 311-12, 
313 

Will-o'-the Wisps, in Faust, xix, 183 

Will Ye Go to the Indies, My 
Mary, vi, 210 

Wills, as evidences of character, ix, 
343; Mohammed on, xlv, 1020; 
Montaigne on men's dislike of, 
xxxii, 12 

Willdo, Parson, xlvii, 884, 894, 895, 
897, 898 

William the Conqueror, census un- 
der, XXXV, 243; introduced money 
payments of taxes, x, z^; love of 
deer, v, 364; Vane on, xliii, 129; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 89 

William III, king of England, Burke 
on election of, xxiv, 165-8; Dis- 
senters and, xxvii, 147; Johnson 
on, 168 

William and Mary, Burke on titles 
of, xxiv, 165-8 

William I, of Orange (d. c. 808), 
XX, 363 note 4 

William of Orange (the Silent), 
anecdote of, v, 301 

William of Orange (the Silent), in 
Egmont, love of Netherlanders 
for, xix, 252; suspected by Mar- 
garet, 257-8; sent for by Mar- 
garet, 259; visit to Egmont, 
278-83; gone from Brussels, 294; 
summoned by Alva, 299; plan to 
arrest, 301-2; declines to come, 

, 302-3 

William II, of Sicily, in Paradise;, 
XX, 372 note 9 



440 



GENERAL INDEX 



William of North Berwick, xxxv, 

, 93 

William of Wykeham, Carlyle on, 

V, 481 
Willie Brew'd a Peck o* Maut, 

vi, 2>7^ 
Willie Nicol's Mare, Elegy on, 

vi, 399 
Willis, Nathaniel P., Poe on lines 

by, xxviii, 386-7 
Willoughby, Lord, xxxv, 23, 42, 56 
Willow-Wren, The, and the Bear, 

xvii, 201 
Willy Drowned in Yarrow, xli, 

510-12 
Wilson, Capt., (in 1859), xxiii, 

403-4; in San Diego, 115-16 
Wilson, J., Boat Song, xlii, 1105-6 
Wilt Thou Be My Dearie, vi, 

511 
Wilton Hall, Emerson on, v, 477-8 
Winchester, Bishop of, in Edward 

II, xlvi, 65, 66, 67, 69 
Winchester Cathedral, Emerson 011, 

V, 480-1 
Winchester, Marchioness of. Epi- 
taph ON, iv, 28-30 
Winckelmann, on the study of 

beauty, v, 309-10 
Wind, Coleridge on the, xli, 748 
Wind and Sun, fable of, xvii, 35 
Windmills, Helmholtz on, xxx, 194- 

195 

Winds, Herodotus on cause of, 
xxxiii, 17; in Garden of Paradise, 
xvii, 299-303; names of the, iv, 
312 

Window, Written on a, vi, 290 

Window-taxes, x, 517-18 

Windows, ancient, ix, 234 note; 
in old England, xxxv, 310, 311; 
in Utopia, xxxvi, 187 

Wine, desire of, which warriors over- 
turns, iv, 432; of Egypt, xxxiii, 
40; Eliot on, V, 130; Homer on 
effects of, xxii, 205, 303; invented 
by Bacchus, viii, 360; Mohammed 
on, xlv, 1018; Omar Khayyam on, 
xli, 971, 980, 986, 987; Pascal on, 
xlviii, 25 (71); price of, in re- 
gard to drunkenness, x, 381-2; 
sweet poison of, misused, iv, 47 

Wine Manufacture, Pasteur on. 
xxxviii, 290, 318 note 

Wines, Burns on, vi, 154 

Winfield, Sir Richard, xxxvi, 102 

Wings, of insects, developed from 
tracheae, xi, 196; peculiar uses of, 
186; used for other purposes 
than flight, xxix, 215; various 
kinds of, xi, 202 

Winkelried, Arnold von, at Sem- 
pach, xxvi, 446 note 

Wmkelried, Struth von, in Wil- 
helm Tell, xxvi, 400-14 

Winter, Burns on, vi, 507; Collins 



on, xli, 493; Goethe on departure 
of, xix, 40; Shelley on, xli, 857 

Winter, Shakespeare's, xl, 2^7 

Winter: A Di«,ge, by Burns, vi, 
32-3 

Winter, Ode to, Campbell's, xli, 
790-2 

Winter, Ode on. Cotton's, xxxix, 
324-6 

Winter, The, It is Past, vi, 320 

Winter Night, A, vi, 260-3 

Winter of Life, vi, 538 

Winter's, Gloomy, Now Awa', xli, 
608-9 

Winter, Master, with Drake, xxxiii, 
209, 216, 237, 238, 256 

Winter, William, with Gilbert, 
xxxiii, 282, 295 

Winterhie, Robert, xxxiii, 214 

Winthrop, John, On Arbitrary 
Government, xliii, 90-112 

Wisdom, Buddha on, xlv, 609, 717- 
19, 755; Carlyle on, xxv, 390; 
Confucius on, xliv, 20 (20), 21 
(21), 30 (28), 42 (^22), 50 (30), ^8 
(9); cunning and, i, 354 (151); 
iii, 60; denned, ii, 72% acqui- 
sition of, by discussion, xxv, 223; 
Ecclesiastes on, xliv, 340 (17- 
18), 341 (12-16), 347 (11-12), 348 
(16, 19), 349 (i), 351 (2, 13-18), 
352 (10); Ehhu on, 123 (9); Em- 
erson on, V, 12-15, 105, 248; fear 
of God, the beginning of, xliv, 
292 (10); necessary to friend- 
ship, ix, 22\ highest, Kempis on, 
vii, 214 (3); highest, Penn on, i, 
411 (244-8); Hindu conception of, 
xlv, 860-1; Job on, xliv, 116 (12- 
28) ; learning and, xxxvii, 137, 
184; needs leisure, xxiv, 198 note 
i; Locke on, xxxvii, 127; love 
and, iii, 28, 29; Marcus Aurelius 
on, ii, 227 (9); Massinger on, 
xlvii, 836; Milnes on delights of, 
xlii, 1098-9; Montaigne on aim 
of, xxxii, 9; ostentatious, ii, 1^7 
(175); Pascal on pride in, xlviii, 
156 (460); Paul, St., on, xlv, 505 
(18-20); Pope on, xl, 448; profit- 
less with God, vii, 286 (2) ; pleas- 
ures of, iii, 8; Raleigh on, xl, 
209; Ruskin on, xxviii,^ 134; 
Schiller on love of, xxxii, 243; 
slow growth of, ii, \tz (iSS)*. 
Socrates on human, 9; Solomon 
on, xxxix, 95; spiritual, Kempis 
on, vii, 307 (2), 309 (4); Tenny- 
son on, xlii, 1016-17; true, at- 
tained by death, ii, 54-7; true, 
Epictetus on, 177 (177); true, 
Kempis on, vii, 310-11; true, 
Montaigne on, xxxii, 51; virtue 
and, Cicero on, ix, 14; way to, 
vii, 218 (4); ii, 140 (66); Web- 
ster on opinion of, xlvii, 740f 



GENERAL INDEX 



441 



what else is (song), viii, 389-90; 
worldly, i, 392-5; only true meas- 
ure of worth, ii, 58 (see also 
Knowledge) 
Wisdom, Robert, Beaumont on, xl, 

328 
Wisdom of Ages, Bentham on, 

xxvii, 238-41 
Wisdom for a Man's Self, Essay 

ON, iii, 63-4 
Wise, Seeming, Essay on, iii, 67-9 
Wise Foi^ks, a story, xvii, 204 
Wise Man, Penn's, i, 395-6, 355 

(167) 
WiSH^ A, by Rogers, xli, 596 
Wish, The Last, xlii, 1165 
Wishes, fable on, xvii, 40; oft hide 
the object we wish for, xix, 379 
Wishes for Supposed Mistress, xl, 

369-71 
Wit, acquired, xxxiv, 366; Beau- 
mont on, xl, 329; cause of differ- 
ences of, xxxiv, 366; death and, 
xl, 266; discretion and fancy in, 
xxxiv, 365; good nature and, 
Sheridan on, xviii, 132; has only 
fancy value, xxxii, 366; Hobbes 
on, xxxiv, 363; judgment com- 
pared with, xxiv, 17-18; malice 
and, Sheridan on, xviii, 116; 
natural, xxxiv, 363; Penn on, i, 
355.; piety and, Gloldsmith on, 
xviii, 199; puny, can work but 
puny sin, viii, 314; Raleigh on, 
xl, 209; without good breeding, 
xxxvii, 76 
Witch, in Manfred, xviii, 418-22 
Witch, in Faust, xix, 101-6 
Witch, young, in Faust, xix, 179 
Witchcraft, Browne on, iii, 294-6; 
first English law against, xlvii, 
525 note 22\ Hbbbes on, xxxiv, 
397; punishment of, in Dante's 
Hell, XX, 47, 83-6; punishment 
of, in old England, xxxv, 385 
Witches, Hobbes on, xxxiv, 329; in 
early Massachusetts, xliii, 84 (2) 
Witches, in Macbeth, xlvi, 305-6, 

308-10, 347-51 
Witford, Mr., Roper on, xxxvi, 95 
Wither, George, poems by, xl, 340-2 
Witherington, the squire, xl, 97, 
100 
I Withington, Lothrop, xxxv, 228 
Witnesses, Hume on evidence of, 
xxxvii, 398-9; right of summon- 
ing, in U. S., xliii, 208 (6) 
Witticisms, Pascal on, xlviii, 20 

(46) 
Wives, husbands and, Goethe on, 
xix, 420-1; husbands and, St. Paul 
on, xlv, 508, 511 (39) ; husbands 
and, Ruskin on, xxviii, 149-50; 
impediments to great works, iii, 
22; Massinger on choice of, xlvii, 
875; Milton on, iv, 445; Milton 
on false, 437-8; Penn on choice 



of, i, 348 (92-3) ; Oberon's coun- 
sel to, xix, 177; "pearls of price," 
131; proverb of, i, 80 
Wizards, in Faust, xix, 166-7 
Woe Is Me, My Mother Dear, vi, 

25 
Woe, joy and, Blake on, xli, 602; 

luxury of, Calderon on, xxvi, 7; 

nothing unscathed by, viii, 262; 

from too much prosperity, 2t2\ 

springs from wrong, 32, 64 
Wolf, F. A., on Homeric c^uestion, 

xxii, 3-4 
Wolf, Johann Christian von, xxxii, 

320 note 
Wolf and Crane, fable of, xvii, 11 
Wolf and Dog, fable of, xvii, 21 
Wolf and Fox, Grimm's tale of, 

xvii, 177 
Wolf and Kid, fable of, xvii, 16 
Wolf and Lamb, fable of, xvii, 9 
Wolf and Nurse, fable of, xvii, 29 
Wolf and Seven Kids, a tale, xvii, 

59-61 
Wolf in Sheep's Clothing, fable 

of, xvii, 26 
Wolfe, Charles, Burial of Sir John 

Moore, xli, 843-4 
Wolfe, Reginald, Cosmography of, 

xxxv, 228 
Wolfenschiessen, the, xxvi, 372 note, 

387 

Wolfram of Eschenbach, Renan on, 
xxxii, 154 

Wolly, Sir Francis, Dr. Donne and, 
XV, 333, 336 

Wolsey, ambition to be Pope, xxxvi, 
106; as Chancellor, 111-12; re- 
moved from Chancellorship, iii; 
Charles V and, 107; as commis- 
sioner, 108, 109; suggests divorce 
of Queen Catherine, 107; More 
and, 96, loo-i, 103; Bishop 
Stoksely and, iio-ii 

Wolves, Darwin on development o.f, 
xi, 103-4; dogs and, xxxv, 375; 
why less despicable than dogs, 
xxiv, 59; in Egypt, xxxiii, 37; 
habits of, v, 388; men changed 
to, xlix, 286 note 

Woman(en), adroitness of, xix, 370; 
^schylus on insight of, viii, 22; 
arguing with, xl, 192; Beaumont's 
Philaster on, xlvii, 682; beauty 
of, as caused by delicacy, xxiv, 
99; beauty of, Emerson on, v, 
315-16; beauty of, Pascal on, 
xlviii, 420; beauty of, Ruskin on, 
xxviii, 151-2; "brief as love of," 
xlvi, 143; Browne on, iii, 337 
(9); Bunyan on, xv, 269; two 
burdens of, viii, 293; Burns on, 
vi, 140-1, 177, 231, 272, 347, 506; 
Celtic ideal of, xxxii, 149; 
Chaucer on, xl, 44; Chaucer on 
counsel of, 46; counterfeit weak- 
ness in, xxiv, 94; creation of, 



444 



GENERAL INDEX 



World's Wanderers, The, xli, 879 
Worm, The Conqueror, xlii, 1 291-2 
Worm, Shakespeare on the, xlvi, 162 
Worry, Epictetus on, ii, 123 (19) 

(see also Anxiety) 
Worship, better than knowing, xlv, 
858; Calvin on splendor in, xxxix, 
38-9; Confucius on, xliv, 10 (12); 
Emerson on loss of, v, 38; nat- 
ural forms of, xxxiv, 393-4; Penn 
on, i, 380-1; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 
263-4, 291-2; in Utopia, xxxvi, 
247-50 
Worship, Essay on, v, 283-305 
Worth, Confucius on, xliv, 13 (14), 
14 (17), 51 (39), 52 (3); Emer- 
son on, V, 196; Jonson on, xl, 
298 (152); Hobbes on, xxxiv, 375, 
378, 383-4; moral, tests of, xxxii, 
327-34» 370-1; Pope on, xl, 446; 
is worth wherever found, xxvi, 
404 
Worthilake, Capt., ballad on, i, 15 
Worthington, Dr., xxxvii, 143 
Wortley, Mr., quoted, v, 408-9 
Wotton, Edward, xxvH, 7 
Wotton, Sir Henry, George Herbert 
and, XV, 388; poems by, xl, 294- 
6; Walton on, xv, 358; Walton's 
Life of, Z26 
Wound-Dresser, The, xlii, 1491-4 
Wounded Hare, The, vi, 359 
Wounds, antiseptic care of, xxxviii, 
271-7, 280-1; gunshot. Lister on, 
280; gunshot, Pare on, 11-12, 40, 
55; cause of suppuration in, 271 
Wrath, Dante on, xx, 5 1 ; the sin 
of, in Faustus, xix, 221; punish- 
ment of, in Hell, xx, z^-3y 48 
(see also Anger) 
Wratislaus, Duke of Bohemia, xxxv, 

278 
Wreck of the Hesperus, xlii, 132 1 
Wren's Nest, The, vi, 580 
Wrens, nests of, xi, 296 
Wrestler, life of a, Epictetus on, ii, 

155 (104) 
Wrestling, Milton advises, 111, 257 
Wright, Dr., Franklin on, i, 155 
Wrightington, Tom, xxiii, 410 
Writers, pecuniary rewards of, x, 

141 
Writing, among the Egyptians, 
xxxiii, 22'y extempore, Carlyle on, 
XXV, 460-4; extempore, Shelley on, 
xxvii, 372; invention of, x, 465; 
Locke on instruction in, xxxvii, 
143-4; maketh an exact man, iii, 
128; natural, Pascal on, xlviii, 12 
(14); for the press. Mill on, xxv, 
57-8; the primary art, xxvii, 269; 
for subsistence. Mill on, xxv, 57- 
8; Stevenson on difficulty of, 
xxviiij 288 
Writings, Arabian verses on, xvi, 
88; Franklin on, i, 108; virtue of, 
tested by time, xxxix, 218-19 



Wrong, ^ right and, Emerson on, t, 
66; right and. Pope on, xl, 419. 
25; Rousseau on, xxxiv, 276; Soc- 
rates on, ii, 38 

Wrong-doing, Manzoni on, xxi, 34. 
5; Marcus Aurelius on, ii, 202 
(10) ; Marcus Aurelius on patience 
under, 248 (22), 249 (26), 293 
(18), 271 (11), 272 (20), 275 
(38), 276 (42), 282 (i^), 301 
(16); Mohammed on punishment 
of, xlv, 905 note 8; punishment 
of, Emerson on, v, 104-5; punish- 
ment of, Epictetus on, li, 120 
(12); reason of, iii, 15 

Wrongs, **in se," and "prohibita," 
xxv, 122 

Wu King, xliv, 27 (20), 69 note 

Wulf, Eofor and, xlix, 75 note i, 
88-9 

Wulfgar, in Beowulf, xlix, 15-16 

Wu-ma Chi, xliv, 24 (30) 

Wyatt, Sir Thomas, Jonson on, 
xxvii, 60; Lover's Appeal, xl, 
195; A Supplication, 194 

Wycherley, Taine on, xxxix, 452; 
Voltaire on, xxxiv, 139-41, 142 

Wyclif, Milton on, iii, 234; rise of, 
206 

Wye, lines composed on banks of 
the, xli, 650-4 

Wygate, Franklin and, i, 49 

Wyndham, Sir William, i, 50-1 

Wyrd, xlix, 18 note 6; references 
to, 19, 21, 26, 40, 73, 76, 78, 84 

Xanthias, in The Frogs, viii, 419- 
25, 427-38, 441.-3 

Xanthippe, in prison with Socrates, 
ii, 47; Socrates and, 297 (28) 

Xanthippus, father of Pericles, xii, 
38; dog of, 15 

Xanthippus, son of Pericles, xii, 62\ 
reviles Pericles, 75-6 

Xenien, satirized, xix, 180 

Xenocles, of Cholargus, xii, 51 

Xenophilus, the Musitian, xxxii, 11 

Xenophon, on agriculture, ix, 67 'y 
Memorabilia, Franklin on, i, 18; 
Sainte-Beuve on, xxxii, 137; Sid- 
ney on, xxvii, 15; Spenser on, 
xxxix, 65; the Ten Thousand and, 
xii, 371; v, 198 

Xerxes, bridge of, iv, 302; Burns 
on, vi, 433; Dante on, xx, 262 
and note 3; defeat of, xii, 8-9; 
invasion of, 13-20; memory of, 
xxxvii, 162; prophecy of, xlviii, 
252; regrets death of soldiers, ix, 
248; Themistocles and, xii, 29- 
31; iii, 149 

Ximines, Gonzalez, xxxiii, 335-6 

Xiphias, reference to, xli, 508 

Yak Cow, Buddha on the, xlv, 608 

Yakshas, xlv, 873 note 

Yama, ruler of the dead, xlv, 701, 
704 

Yang Fu, xliv, 67 (19) 



GENERAL INDEX 



445 



Yang Huo, xliv, 59 (i) 

Yao, Emperor, xliv, 21 note 18, 27 

(19), 52 (45), 68 (i) note 
Yarrow, The Braes of, by Hamil- 
ton, xli, 586 
Yarrow, The Braes of, by Logan, 

xli, 512 
Yarrow, The Dowy Houms O, xl, 

116-18 
Yarrow Revisited, xli, 647-50 
Yarrow Unvisited, xli, 642-4 
Yarrow Visited, xli, 644-7 
Ye Shall Walk in Silk Attire, 

xli, 593-4 
Year 1788, Elegy on the, vi, 341-2 
Year That's Awa', xli, 595 
Years, cheap and dear, effect on 

labor, X, 87-91 
Yeast, action of, xxxviii, 364-7, 371; 
Liebig on, 369; relations of, to 
oxygen, 289-317, 329-32; pencil- 
Hum and, 378-9 
Yen P'ing, xliv, 16 (16) 
Yen Yiian, disciple of Confucius, 
xliv, 7, note 4, 15 note 7, 18 
(25), 18 note 2, 19 (5, 9), 22 
(10), 26 note 4, 29 (10), 30 (19, 
20), 34 (2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9), 35 (10), 
36 (18, 22), 38 (i), 53 (10) 
Yeoman, Chaucer's, xl, 14 
Yeomen, Harrison on, of England, 

xxxv, 238-9, 241 
Yggdrasil, the tree, xlix, 291 note 
Yi, death of, xliv, 47 note 
Yi-yi, xliv, 64 (8) 
Yi-yin, xliv, 42 note 9 
Yngve, Alf and, v, 357 
Yog, xlv, 809, 810, 813, 823, 829 
YoN Wild Mossy Mountains, vi, 

263-4 
Yorick, the skull of, xlvi, 184 
York, and Lancaster, xxxix, 78 
York, the S^e of, xxxv, 264; arch- 
bishop of, 268-9 
York, Minster, the Fuegian, xxix, 

222-4, 230, 237, 238, 242, 244-5 
Yorktown, Articles of Capitula- 
tion, xliii, 180-4 
You Ask Me Why, xlii, 1032 
Youatt, on selection, xi, 46, 50 
You'll Love Me Yet, xlii, 1115 
Young, Edward, Night Thoughts of, 

xxxix, 314 
Young, James, Burns on, vi, 373 
Young, Stephen, Burns on, vi, 373 
Young Bicham: a ballad, xl, 85-8 
Young Friend, Epistle to a, vi, 

212-14 
Young Highland Rover, vi, 305 
Young Jamie, Pride of a' the . 

Plain, vi, 515 
Young Jockie was the Blyhest 

Lad, vi, 362 
Young Lady, To a, xli, 547 
Young May Moon, xli, 842 
[Young and Old, xlii, 11 03 



Young Peggy Blooms, vi, 114-15 

Yount, John, xxiii, 416 

You're Welcome, Willie Stewart, 
vi, 438 

Youth, age and, Shakespeare on, xl, 
27 s; aspirations of, xix, 31; 
beauty of, iii, 112; Byron on 
glories of, xli, 809; Carlyle on, 
XXV, 3^4; confidence of, v, 65; 
Confucius on, xliv, 30 (^22) ; de- 
termines course of life, 1, 73; Ec- 
CLEsiASTES on, xHv, ;}53 (9-10); 
education best begun in, iii, 104; 
faith of, xix, 34-5; Goethe on, 
13-14; Kingsley on, xlii, 1103; 
nature's recipe of, xix, 95; needs 
guidance, 379; plasticity of, xxv, 
377-8; Pliny on leniency with, ix, 
354; reason of pleasantness of, 
xxiv, 67-8; poetry and, xxxix, 
327-8; Shakespeare on, xl, 268; 
Shakespeare on lightness of, xlvi, 
176; son of Cupid and Psyche, 
iv, 73; Stevenson on, xxviii, 314; 
virtue^ and, i, 219; Wordsworth 
on, xli, 61 1 

Youth and Age^ Essay on. Bacon's, 
iii, iio-ii 

Youth and Age, by Byron, xli, 

803-4 
Youth and Age, by Coleridge, xli, 

719-20 
Youth, My Lost, xlii, 1343-5 
Yspaddaden, Penkawr, xxxii, 156 
Yu, Emperor, xliv, 68 (i) note 
Yu, the historian, xliv, 53 (6) 
Yu Jo, disciple of Confucius, xliv, 

40 (9) 
Yuan Jang, xliv, 52 (46) 
Yuan Ssu, disciple of Confucius, 

xliv, 19 (3), 46 (i) note 
Yu-chung, xliv, 64 (8), 65 
Yu-tzu, disciple of Confucius, xliv, 

5 (2), 6 (12, 13) 
Yukta, xlv, 825, 826, 827 
Yunan, King, story of, xvi, 33-43 
Yunani Sage, story of the, v, 202 
Zacchaeus, the publican, xliv, 409 

(i-io) 
Zachariah, the prophet, xliv, 392 

(51) 
Zacharias, the priest, xliv, 357-8, 

360-1; Mohammed on, xlv, 919- 

20, 965 
Zaid, freedman of Mohammed, xlv, 

1003 note 
Zainab, wife of Mohammed, xlv, 999 

note 2, 1003 note 
Zaleucus, Cicero on, ix, 155 
Zalih, xlv, 916-17 
Zalmunna, reference to, xliv, 253 

(II) 
Zanche, Michel, in Hell, xx, 93 and 

note 5; murder of, 142 note 6 
Zanoguera, John, xiv, 407 
Zapoletes, More on the, xxxvi, 232-3 



446 



GENERAL INDEX 



Zarate, Francisco de, xxxiii, 220 note 
Zarephath, the widow of, xliv, 369 

(26) 
Zeal, "excessive, but little wisdom 
shows," viii, 245; excessive, 
Browne on, iii, 269; excessive, 
Penn on, i, 398 (76-8), 353 (142- 
3) ; knowledge and, Pascal on, 
xlviii, 308 (868) ; More on, xxxvi, 
165; on occasion waits, iv, 392; 
Raleigh on, xl, 208; without char- 
ity, i, 383 (541) 
Zebah, reference to, xliv, 253 (11) 
Zebra, descent of the, xi, 173-4 
Zedechias, physician, xxxix, 86 
Zedekiah, King, xxxvi, 333 
Zeeb, reference to, xliv, 253 (11) 
Zeno, the Eleatic, xii, 40; in Athens, 
xxviii, 59; in Limbo, xx, 20; mis- 
sion of, ii, 157 (108); native of 
Cyprus, xxviii, 60;^ Newman on, 
53; on Pericles, xii, 41; on two 
kinds of pupils, xxxii, 67 
Zephon, in Paradise Lost, iv, 177- 

178 
Zephyr, and Aurora, iv, 31 
Zertusht, and the Yunani sage, v, 

202 
Zeruiah, sons of, xliii, 100 
Zethus, founder of Thebes, xxii, 

158 
Zeus, i^schylus on, viii, 62; throne 
of, on Athos, 16; Cronos and, 157 
note 2 ; has power over everything 
but death, 140; subject to the 
Fates, 174; guardian of the hearth 
and board, 7, 30; lo and, 178-9, 
185 and note 59; guardian of 
marriage-bed, 123; Odysseus and, 
xxii, lo-ii, 72, 179-80, 344; over- 
throw prophesied, viii, 182, 187-8; 
orders Phaeacians punished, xxii, 
184-5; Prometheus and, viii, 164; 
why represented with ram's face, 
xxxiii, 26; Semele and, viii, 307; 
god of strangers and beggars, xxii, 
127; Thetis and, viii, 182 note o 
49; thunderbolts of, controlled by 



Athena, 147- (see also Jove, Jupi« 
ter) 
Zeuxidamus, on the Spartans, xxxii, 

6i ^ 
Zeuxis, Agatharchus and, xii, 51; 

Cervantes on, xiv, 9 
Ziba, and David, xii, 498 
Zikrs, xvi, 85 note 7 
Zinc, action of, on water, xxx, 127-8 
"Zingara," statue called, xxxi, 332 

note I 
Zion, beauty and glory of, xliv, 205; 
Bernard of Morlaix on, xlv, 561; 
Bunyan on, xv, 159; chosen of 
God, xliv, 318 (13-18); descrii)- 
tion of a citizen of, 160; privi- 
leges of_ citizenship in, 257; Mil- 
ton on, iv, 139 
Zion, Mount, xliv, 247 (68) 
Ziphites, David on the, xliv, 212 
Zipporah, reference to, vi, 172 
Zisca, John, skin of, xxiv, 402 
Zoilus, Apollo and, xxviii, 395; Cer- 
vantes on, xiv, 9 
Zoology, Locke on study of, xxxvii, 

^ 157 

Zoophytes, in Falkland Islands, 
xxix, 216-18; Harvey on, xxxviii, 

r. ^37 

Zoospores, Pasteur on, xxxviii, 359 
Zophar the Naamathite, xliv, 75, 89, 

103, 143 
Zophiel, the cherub, iv, 220 
Zopyrus, teacher of Alcibiades, xii, 

no 
Zopyrus, servant of Darius, xxvii, 

23 
Zoraida, Lela, xiv, 392; story of, 

417-44 
Zorillo, Darwin on the, xxix, 92 
Zoroaster, on God, xxxix, 106; on 

perseverance, v, 82 
Zosimus, freedman of Pliny, ix, 289- 

Zounds, meaning of, xix, 210 note i 
Zubeydeh, wife of Harun Er-Rashid, 

xvi, 145 
Zwinglius, Voltaire on, xxxiv, 85 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

(Names printed in small capitals refer to entries in the General Index) 

1316-1307 B. c. — Siege of Troy by the Greeks under Agamemnon, 

King of Argos 
900-800 B. c. — Birth of Homer^ Greek epic poet. There is great 

uncertainty regarding both the date and place of his 

birth 
557 B. c. — Birth of Siddhartha Gautama, known as Buddha, 

founder of Buddhism, the "Light of Asia" 
551 B. c. — Birth of Confucius, Chinese philosopher and moralist 
550 B. c. — Birth of ^sop, Greek fabulist (supposed date) 
525 B. c. — Birth of ^schylus, father of classic Greek tragedy 
500-300 B. c. — The Maha Bharata, Hindu epic, probable date 

of writing, according to the claims of most scholars 
495 B.C. — Birth of Sophocles, the "most perfectly balanced 

among the three great masters of Greek tragedy" 
492 B. c. — CoRiOLANUS (Gnseus Marcius), defeats the Volsci, an 

Italic tribe, capturing their town Corioli, whence his 

surname 
491 B. c. — CoRiOLANUS banished from Rome for demanding the 

deposition of the plebeian tribunes 
490 B. c. — Battle of Marathon between the Athenians and Pla- 

taeans under Miltiades and the Persian army of Darius 
490 B. c. — Birth of Herodotus, the "father of history" (sup- 
posed date) 
480 B. c. — Birth of Euripides, Greek tragedian, the youngest of 

the great trio 
479 B. c. — The battle of Mycale, between the Greeks under 

Leotychides, King of Sparta, and the army of Xerxes 
478 B. c. — Death of Confucius 
477 B. c. — Death of Buddha 
466 B. c. — Pericles, General of Athenian forces, subdues revolts 

in Euboea and Megara 
470-460 B. c. — Birth of Hippocrates, Greek physician, the "father 

of medicine" 
469 B. c. — Birth of Socrates, Athenian philosopher, the central 

figure in the history of Greek thought 
468 B. c. — Death of Aristides, called "The Just," Athenian 

statesman and general (supposed date) 
456 B. c. — Death of ^schylus (supposed date) 
455 B. c. — Pericles overruns the Peloponnesus 

447 

VOL. L — HC (is) 



ciiuosoiakjIlal index 

450 s. c — Birth of Amni^vrn, Athefiian tUt^man and general 
450 ■. c— Birth of A. iiavei, ''the u ^ of the co: 

444'4J9 ». ur^ D^i.<. at rtiler of the Athenimn G/rn- 

m 
4JB 1. c — Birth of Plato, A otopber, di»ciplc of 

436 m. o- '^ Tfn...f^rTi .L (tuppoicd date) 

#y7 s. c.^ 1 itateiousiy deposed 

4<^ a c— 

40s ft. o-i/caia 01 lAjyi' 

404 ft, c, — Deatfi of Afx 

400 ft. c— B'r^K rir j'^ «v :i ' rling to mtqr Mhotan 

»ft.C^I 
ft. r '<!:» 

J^ ft. c. »^ Athrrian oratof 

JIB4 a c.>— Hirfh of A the famout Gr ' 

c throf>r» i ' thr I'lrunl 

jfkyjfjO ft. c. — !>' f Hiff^i'^tATr* ^» 

Ji6 n, C— Birth of A] i^ of 

3J7 ' ' ' '" ^ ''^' ^L«itsiiMin at AtbcAt 

S2.3 >- Air ' . rAT 

12J ft. c — J of lJ> 

i'>y K. ' II *ji ««i#i ^uf J UIIIU9 Ci^^^ui-// Uk grfat Romin 

r 
100 ft. c>->Birth of Julius r>riAa. R/yman grnrral and •late*' 

) 
tj fti c \ntofiitit (Mark AffTonv), Komaii 

! 
76 ft. C T Uj thr pr ' of Lilrbsttfll, 

70 a 'h of T>..t t:... v--"*'-'- ^'-"' 'VfftoiL), Ronufi 
69 ft. c 'h o( < of Kcypt« famout for bcr 

64 it- • ;■.... w. Cmtbtt iba contpiracx of 

fS-fo a .t 

ff fti. C ' ^ f'> ((k 'fnumvirate 

Sf ft ' 

4p a A a and PoMf»y. 

4II ft. ( 4fk AMTOtrv in naval bauic at 

^44 ► • MAt m%A^ didftfDf 

4M a Aft in iht ktltli Pf PliftrtaUip 

1 iU i g/^i 



CHmomJUKKAL UiuzJL 




-r. 



— c^ ^.rrrrr-rrga. 

Si C1Z3C23T cf A 



ite 



*; - -~ 




450 CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

400 A. D. — Gloria in Excelsis^ great Latin hymn, written (sup- 
posed date) 
430 A. D. — Death of Saint Augustine 

450-500 A. D. — Birth of Beowulf, hero of the Saxon epic (sup- 
posed date) 
571 A. D. — Birth of Mohammed, the prophet of Arabia, founder 

of Mohammedanism 
622-624 A. D. — Beginning of the Mohammedan Era and Holy 

War 
632 A. D. — Death of Mohammed 

673 A. d. — Birth of the venerable Bede, Saxon writer in Eng- 
land, most distinguished scholar of his age 
676 A. d. — Birth of St. John of Damascus, great theologian of 

the Greek Qiurch 
725 A. d. — Birth of St. Stephen the Sabaite, hymnist 
735 A. d. — Death of the Venerable Bede 
742 A. D. — Birth of Charlemagne (Charles the Great), king of 

the Franks and Roman Emperor 
778 A. D. — Charlemagne returns from Spain. The rear-guard 
of his army is annihilated at Roncesvalles by the 
Basques. Subject of "The Song of Roland" 
814 A. D. — Death of Charlemagne 
935 A. d. — Birth of Firdousi (Abul Kasim Mausur), Persian 

epic poet 
1000 A. d. — Discovery of North America by Leif (Ericsson) the 

Lucky (supposed date) 
1012 A. D. — Death of Firdousi 
1050 A. d. — Birth of Omar Khayyam, Persian astronomer and 

poet. Author of the "Rubaiyat" 
1091 A. d. — Birth of St. Bernard of Clairvaux, mystical theo- 
logian and hymnist 
iioo A, D. — Period assigned to Irish epic the Destruction of 

Da Dergas Hostel (supposed date) 
II12 A. D. — Birth of Wage, Anglo-Norman poet 
1125 A. D. — Birth of Bernard of Morlaix (or of Cluny), Bene- 
dictine monk ; author of Latin poem, basis of Jerusalem 
the Golden (supposed date) 
1180 A. D. — Death of Wage, Anglo-Norman poet 
1200 A. D. — Period assigned to the composition of the Volsunga 

Saga 
1200 A. D. — History of the Danes by Saxe Grammaticus written 
1200-1275 A. D. — Period of Thomas a Celano^ author of Dies 

1200-1300 A. D. — Period of Jacobus de Benedictis, author of 
"Stabat Mater'' 

1265 A. D. — Birth of Dante Alighieri, Italian poet, author of 
"The Divine Comedy" 

1300-1350 A. D. — Period of Sir John Mandeville, hero and re- 
puted author of the famous work "Travels of Sir John 
Mandeville" 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 451 

1302 A. D. — Dante Alighieri, condemned to death by his political 
enemies, saves himself by exile 

1313 A. D. — Birth of Giovanni Boccaccio, Italian poet and novel- 
ist; author of the "Decameron" 

1321 A. D. — Death of Dante Alighieri 

1326 A. D. — Birth of John Gower, English poet (supposed date) 

1337 A. D. — Birth of Sir John Froissart, French poet and his- 
torian 

1340 A. D. — Birth of Geoffrey Chaucer, English poet 

1346 A. D. — The battle of Crecy in which King Edward III of 
England defeated the French Army under Philip VI 

1356 A. D. — Battle of Poitiers in which Edward the Black 
Prince gained a great victory over the French and 
captured the French king, John II 

1356 A. D. — "Voyage and Travaile of Sir John Mandeville'^ 
written 

1364 A. d. — Chaucer^s "Canterbury Tales" written 

1372 A. d. — Date assigned to death of Sir John Mandeville, hero 
of book of travels 

1375 A. d. — Death of Giovanni Boccaccio, "creator of the clas- 
sic Italian prose and father of the modern novel" 

1379-1380 A. d. — Birth of Thomas Haemmerlein, known as 
Thomas a Kempis 

1381 a. d. — Wat Tyler's Rebellion. The name usually applied 
to the English social revolt of 1381, from Wat Tyler 
its chief leader 

1388 A. D. — Battle of Otterburn, between the forces of Percy, 
surnamed Hotspur, and Douglas, in which both leaders 
fell. The battle is commemorated by the ballad "Chevy 
Chase'' 

1400 A. D. — Death of Geoffrey Chaucer 

1408 A. D. — Death of John Gower 

1410 A. d. — Death of Sir John Froissart 

1422 A. D. — Birth of William Caxton, the first English printer 
(supposed date) 

1469 A. D. — Birth of Niccolo di Bernardo Machiavelli 

1471 A. D. — Death of Thomas a Kempis 

1471 A. D. — Birth of Albrecht Durer, German painter, engraver 

and designer, the "greatest master of the German Re- 
naissance" 

1472 A. D. — Dante's "Divine Comedy" first printed 

1474 A. D. — Caxton's translation of "The Recuyell of the His- 

tories OF Troy" published, the first book printed in the 
English language 

1475 a. d. — Birth of Thomas Wolsey^ English Cardinal and 

statesman (supposed date) 

1478 A. D. — Birth of Sir Thomas More, English author and states- 
man 

1480-1537 A. D. — Birth of Alessandro de Medici, Duke of Flor- 
ence (supposed date) 



452 



CHRONOT.OGTCAT. INDEX 



1483 A. D.— Birth of Martin Luther, the "Founder of Protestant 

Civilization" 
1485 A. D.— Sir Thomas Malory's "Morte D'Arthur" published 

1491 A. D. — Death of William Caxton 

1492 A. D. — The discovery of the West Indies by Christopher 

Columbus 
1495 A. D. — Birth of Francois Rabelais, French humorist 
1497 A. D. — John Cabot discovers the mainland of North Amer- 
ica, probably Labrador 
1500 A. D. — Birth of Raphael Holinshed, English chronicler 
1500 A. D. — Birth of Benvenuto Cellini, Italian sculptor and 

goldsmith 
1503 A. D. — Birth of Sir Thomas Wyatt, English diplomatist and 
poet (supposed date) 

1505 a. d. — Birth of John Knox, Scottish reformer, statesman 

and writer 

1506 A. D. — Birth of St. Francis Xavier, Spanish Jesuit mis- 

sionary 

1509 A. D. — Birth of John Calvin, French reformer and theo- 
logian 

1513 A. D. — Niccolo Machiavelli imprisoned and tortured 

1516 A. D. — Birth of Roger Ascham, English classical scholar 
and author 

15 16 A. D. — **Utopia'* by Thomas ATore written 

1516 A. I). — ^'Orlando Furioso" published 

151 7 A. D. — Birth of Ambroise Pare, French surgeon 

1517 A. D. — Birth of Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey, English poet 

(supposed date) 
1517 a. d. — Martin Luther posts "The Ninety-five Theses" on 

the church door at Wittenberg 

1519 A. D. — Birth of Cosimo de Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany 

1520 A. D. — Martin Luther publishes the fundamental principles 

of the Reformation and is expelled from the Church 
1523 A. D. — Pope Clement VH elected 
1523 A. I). — Birth of Richard Edwards. English dramatist 

1526 A. D. — Sack of Rome by the Ghibelline house of Colonna 

1527 A. D. — Death of Niccolo Machiavelu 

1528 A. D. — Death of Albrccht Durer 

1529 A. d. — Sir Thomas More made Lord Chancellor of England 

1530 A. d. — Death of Cardinal Wolsey 

1533 A. D. — Birth of Michel Eyquem de Montaigne, French 

philosopher and essayist 
1533 A. D. — Death of Ludovico Ariosto 

1533 A. D. — John Calvin banished from Paris 

1534 A. d. — Martin Luther's translation of the Bible published 

1535 A. D.— Birth of George Gascoigne, English poet (supposed 

date) 

1535 A. D. — Sir Thomas More executed on Tower Hill 

1536 A. D. — Calvin's ''Institutes of the Christian Religion* 

published 



CHRONOIX)GICAL INDEX 453 

1536 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Sackville, Earl of Dorset, English 

poet 

1537 A. D. — Death of Alessandro, Duke de Medici 

1537 A. D. — Triumphal entry of the Emperor Charles V into 
Rome 

1539 A. D. — Birth of Sir Humphrey Gilbert, founder of the first 

English colony in North America 

1540 A. D. — Birth of Sir Francis Drake, English navigator (sup- 

posed date) 
1542 A. D. — John Knox becomes a convert to Protestant doctrines 
1542 A. D. — Death of Sir Thomas Wyatt 

1544 A. D. — Birth of Torquato Tasso, Italian epic poet 

1545 A. D. — Birth of Nicholas Breton, English poet (supposed 

date) 
1547 A. D. — John Knox a prisoner in France 
1547 A. D. — Birth of Miguel Cervantes Saavedra, Spanish 

novelist and poet, author of "Don Quixote" 
1547 A. D. — Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey, English poet and 

courtier, beheaded 

1549 A. D. — First English prayer-book composed 

1550 A. D. — Birth of Edward De Vere, Earl of Oxford, English 

poet and courtier 
1552 A. D. — Birth of Sir Walter Raleigh, English navigator, 
author, courtier and soldier 

1552 A. D. — Death of St. Francis Xavier 

1552-1555 A. D. — Period of the War of Siena, when Piero Strozzi 
acted as general for Henry H of France against the 
Spaniards 

1553 A. D. — Birth of Anthony Munday, English dramatist, poet 

and compiler 
1553 A. D. — Birth of John Florio, English lexicographer, author 

and translator 
1553 A. D. — Birth of Edmund Spenser, English poet 
'553 A. D. — Birth of John Lvly. English dramatist 

1553 A. D. — Death of Fran(;ois Rabklais 

1554 A. D. — Birth of Sir Philip Sidney, English soldier and 

author 
1556 A. d. — Birth of Thomas Lodge, English novelist, dramatist 

and poet (supposed date) 
1558 A. D. — John Knox's "First Blast of the Trumpet against 

the Monstrous Regiment of Women" published 
1558 A. D. — Birth of George Peele, English dramatist and 

poet 
1 558- 1566 A. D. — Period covered by the "Autobiography of Ben- 

venuto Cellini" 
1 558-1603 A. D. — Reign of Elizabeth. Queen of England 

1560 a. d. — Birth of Robert Greene, English dramatist, novelist 

and poet (supposed date) 

1561 A. D. — Birth of Francis Bacon, English philosopher, jurist 

and statesman 



454 CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

1561 A. D. — Birth of Robert Southwell, English poet and Jesuit 

martyr (supposed date) 

1562 A. D. — Lope de Vega, the ^'Spanish Shakespeare/' born 
1562 A. D. — Birth of Henry Constable, English poet 

1562 A. D. — Birth of Samuel Daniel, English poet and historian 

1563 A. D. — Birth of Joshua Sylvester, English poet 

1563 A. D. — Birth of Michael Drayton, English poet 

1564 A. D. — Death of John Calvin 

1564 A. D. — Birth of William Shakespeare, English poet and 
dramatist 

1564 A. D. — Birth of Christopher Marlow^e, English poet and 

dramatist 

1565 A. D. — Birth of Richard Rovi^lands, English poet 

1566 A. D. — Death of Richard Edw^ards 

1567 A. D. — Birth of William Alexander, Earl of Stirling, 

Scottish poet and statesman (supposed date) 
1567 A. D. — Sir Francis Drake commanding a ship under Sir 

John Hawkins is defeated by the Spaniards 
1567 A. D. — Birth of Robert Devereux, Earl of Essex, English 

courtier and soldier 

1567 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Campion, English poet (supposed 

date) 

1568 A. D. — Birth of Sir Henry Wotton, English diplomatist and 

author 

1568 A. D. — Death of Roger Ascham 

1569-1574 A. D. — Sir Walter Raleigh serves in the Huguenot 
Army in France 

1569 A. D. — Death of Bernardo Tasso, Italian poet 

1570 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Dekker, English dramatist (sup- 

posed date) 

1 571 A. D, — Death of Benvenuto Cellini 

1572 A. D. — Death of John Knox 

1573 A. D. — Birth of John Donne, English poet and divine 

1574 A. D. — Birth of Ben Jonson, English dramatist (supposed 

date) 
1574 A. D. — Death of Cosimo de* Medici 

1574 A. D. — Birth of Richard Barnfield, English poet 

1575 A. D. — Miguel Cervantes Saavedra, maimed for life in the 

battle of Lepanto, is captured by the Moors. He was 

a slave for five years among them 
1575 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Heywood, English dramatist and 

miscellaneous writer (supposed date) 
1577 A. D. — Birth of Robert Burton, English writer 
1577 A. D. — Death of George Gascoigne 

1577 A. D. — Sir Francis Drake's voyage in 'The Golden 

Hind" 

1578 A. D. — "Chronicles of England," by Raphael Holinshed, 

published 
1578 A. D. — Sir Humphrey Gilbert receives from Queen Elizabeth 
a charter to plant a colony in North America 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 



455 



1578 A. 


1578 A. 


1579 A. 
1579 A. 
1579 A. 


1580 A. 


1580 A. 

1582 A. 

1583 A. 

1584 A. 


1585 A. 


1585 A. 

1586 A. 
1586 A. 

1586 A. 

1587 A. 


1588 A. 
1588 A. 
1588 A. 


1590 A. 


1590 A. 

1591 A. 


I59I A. 

1591 A. 

1592 A. 
1592 A. 
1592 A. 

1592 A. 

1593 A. 
1593 A. 


1593 A. 

1594 A. 

1595 A. 
1595 A. 

1595 A. 

1596 A. 
1596 A. 
1596 A. 



D. — Birth of William Harvey, English physiologist and 
anatomist 

D. — Sir Walter Raleigh engages with his half-brother 
Sir Humphrey Gilbert in his first expedition against 
the Spaniards 

D. — Birth of John Fletcher, English dramatist and poet 

D. — Birth of Captain John Smith, English adventurer 

D. — "The Shepherds Calendar," by Edmund Spenser, 
published 

D. — Birth of John Webster, English dramatist (supposed 
date) 

D. — Death of Raphael Holinshed 

D. — Birth of Richard Corbet, English prelate and poet 

D. — Birth of Philip Massinger, English dramatist 

D. — Birth of Francis Beaumont, English dramatist and 
poet 

D. — Birth of Cornelius Jansen, who gave his name to 
the Jansenist school 

D. — Birth of William Drummond, Scottish poet 

D. — Birth of Martin Rinkart, German hymn writer 

D. — Drake brings home the despairing Virginian colony 

D. — Death of Sir Philip Sidney 

D. — Christopher Marlowe's first tragedy "Tamburlaine" 
produced 

D. — Birth of George Wither, English poet 

D. — Birth of Thomas Hobbes, English philosopher 

D. — Christopher Marlowe's "Doctor Faustus'' first pro- 
duced 

D. — "The Faerie Queene," by Edmund Spenser, pub- 
lished 

D. — Death of Ambroise Pare 

D. — Christopher Marlowe's tragedy of "Edward II" is 
produced 

D. — Birth of William Browne 

D. — Birth of Robert Herrick, English lyric poet 

D. — Death of Michel de Montaigne 

D. — Birth of Francis Quarles, English poet 

D. — Sir Walter Raleigh a prisoner in the Tower 

D. — Death of Robert Greene 

D. — Death of Christopher Marlowe 

D. — Birth of Izaak Walton, English author; noted for 
his "Compleat Angler" 

D. — Birth of George Herbert, English poet 

D. — Birth of GusTAvus Adolphus, King of Sweden 

D. — Death of Torquato Tasso at Rome 

D. — Sir Walter Raleigh discovers Guiana 

D. — Death of Robert Southwell 

D. — Birth of James Shirley, English dramatist 

D. — Death of Sir Francis Drake 

D.— Bijib of Rene Descartes, French philosopher 



456 CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

1597 A. D. — Death of George Peele (supposed date) 

1597 A. D. — ^Francis Bacon's Essays first published 

1598 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Carew, EngHsh poet 

1599 a. d.— Thomas Dekker's play, "The Shoemaker's Houday/' 

first acted 

1599 A. D. — Death of Edmund Spenser 

1600 A. D. — Birth of Don Pedro Calderon, Spanish dramatist 

and poet 

1601 A. D. — Death of Robert Devereux, second Earl of Essex, 

chief favorite of Queen Elizabeth 

1603 A. D. — First edition of Shakespeare's "Hamlet'' pub- 

lished 

1604 A. D. — Death of Edward De Vere, Earl of Oxford 

1604 A. D. — Beginning of Sir Walter Raleigh's imprisonment of 

twelve years for treason against James I. During this 
period he wrote his "History of the World" 

1605 A. D. — "King Lear" first acted 

1605 A. D. — The first part of "Don Quixote" published in 

Madrid 
1605 A. D. — Birth of Sir Thomas Browne, scholar and antiquary; 

author of "Religio Medici" 

1605 A. D. — Birth of William Habington, English poet 

1606 A. D. — Birth of Edmund Waller, English poet 

1606 A. D. — Birth of Sir William D'Avenant, English poet and 

play-writer 
1606 A. D. — Death of John Lyly, English romancer and dramatist 
1606 A. D. — Birth of Pierre Corneille, French dramatist. The 

works of Corneille represent most fully the ideal of 

French classical tragedy 
1608 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Fuller, English author and divine, 

famous for his work, the "Worthies of England" 
1608 A. D. — Birth of John Milton, English poet and statesman 

1608 A. D. — Death of Thomas Sackville^ Earl of Dorset, Eng- 

lish poet and statesman 

1609 A. D. — Birth of Sir John Suckling, English poet 

1610 A. D. — Ben Jonson's play, "The Alchemist," first acted 

1610 A. D. — Shakespeare's tragedy, "Macbeth," first produced 

161 1 A. D. — Birth of William Cartwright, English poet and 

divine 
161 1 A. D.— Shakespeare's play, "The Tempest," first produced 

1611 A. D.— First English translation of "Don Quixote" (first 

part) by Thomas Shelton is published 

1612 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Jordan, English poet 

1612 A. D. — Birth of James Graham, first Marquis of Montrose 

1612 A, D. — Birth of Samuel Butler, English satirist 

1613 A. D.— Birth of Duke de La Rochefoucauld, French epi- 

grammatic moralist 
1613 A. D.— Birth of Richard Crashaw, English poet (supposed 

date) , i. u J 

1615 A. D.— Cervanies's "Don Quixote" (second part) pubhshed 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 4S7 

l6i6 A. D. — Death of Francis Beaumont, English poet and drama- 
tist. In collaboration with Fletcher wrote fifty-four 
plays 

6i6 A. D. — Death of Miguel Cervantes Saavedra 

6i6 A. D. — Death of William Shakespeare 

6i8 a, d. — Birth of Abraham Cowley, English poet and essayist 

6i8 A. D. — Birth of Richard Lovelace, English poet 

6i8 A. D. — Execution of Sir Walter Raleigh 

6i8 A. D. — Francis Bacon, philosopher and statesman, made 
Lord Chancellor and Baron Verulam 

619 A. D. — Death of Thomas Campion 

620 A. D. — Lord Bacon's **No\tjm Organum" published 
620 A. D. — The Mayflower Compact signed 

620 A. D. — Birth of Alexander Brome, English poet and dramatist 

620 A. D. — Birth of John Evelyn, English author 

621 A. D. — Francis Bacon, statesman and philosopher, made 

Viscount St. Albans ; convicted of bribery. Sentenced by 

House of Lords to loss of offices, imprisonment, and fine 

621 A. D. — Birth of Andrew Mar\^ll, English poet and politician 

621 A. D. — Birth of Jean de La Fontaine, French poet and 

fable writer 

622 A. D. — Birth of Henry Vaughan, English poet 

622 A. D. — Birth of Jean Baptiste Moliere, the "greatest of 

French dramatists'* 
62^ A. D. — Birth of Blaise Pascal, French philosopher and 

author 
622, A. D. — John Webster's play, *The Duchess of Malfi/' 

published 

623 A. D. — First folio edition of Shakespeare's plays published 

by Hem INGE and Condell 

624 A, D. — John Smith's ^'General Historic of Virginia and 

New England" published 

625 A. D. — Massinger's play, **A New Way to Pay Old Debts,** 

first acted 
625 A. D. — Death of John Webster (supposed date) 
625 A. D. — Death of John Fletcher 

625 A. D. — Death of Thomas Lodge 

626 A. D. — Death of Nicholas Breton (supposed date) 

626 A. D. — Death of Francis Bacon 

627 A. D. — Birth of Jacques Benigne BossuET, French pulpit 

orator 
62^ A. D. — Bacon's "New Atlantis" published 

628 A. D. — William Har\'ey*s w^ork on "The Circulation of the 

Blood" published in Latin at Frankfort 
628 A. D. — Birth of Sir William Temple, English statesman and 

essayist 
631 A. D. — Death of Michael Drayton 
631 a. d. — ^Death of Captain John Smith 
1631 A. D. — Birth of John Dryden, English dramatist, poet, and 

critic 



458 CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

1632 A. D. — Death of Gustavus Adolphus 

1632 A. D. — Birth of John Locke, English philosopher 

1633 A. D. — Birth of Samuel Pepys, English diarist 
1633 A. D. — Death of George Herbert 

1633 A. D. — Death of Anthony Munday 

1633 A. D. — Abraham Cowley's "Poetical Blossoms" published 

1635 A. D. — Death of Lope de Vega 

1636 A. D. — Birth of Nicolas BoiLEAU-Despreaux, greatest French 

critic of the 17th century 

1637 A. D. — Death of Ben Jonson 

1637 A. D. — Rene Descartes's "Discourse on Method'* published 
1639 A. D. — The first American constitution of government, 

adopted by a popular convention of the towns, Windsor, 

Wethersfield, and Hartford 
1639 A. D. — Birth of Sir Charles Sedley, English poet and 

dramatist 

1639 A. D. — Birth of Jean Baptiste Racine, greatest of French 

classical dramatists 

1640 A. D. — Death of Philip Massinger 

1640 A. D. — Death of Robert Burton 

1641 A. D. — Death of Thomas Dekker (supposed date) 
1641 A. D. — Milton's "Prelatical Episcopacy" published 
1641 A. D. — Milton's "Reformation of England" published 

1641 A. D. — The first code of laws established in New England; 

known as "The Body of Liberties" 

1642 A. D. — Death of Sir John Suckling (supposed date) 
1642 A. D. — Sir Thomas Browne's "Religio Medici" published 
1642 A. D. — The Long Parliament closes the theaters 

1642 A. D. — Birth of Sir Isaac Newton, "The greatest English 
mathematician and physicist" 

1644 A. D. — John Winthrop, Deputy Governor of Massachusetts, 
publishes a document on "Arbitrary Government" 

1644 A. D. — Birth of William Penn, the founder of Pennsylvania 

1644 A. D. — Milton's "Areopagitica" and "Tractate on Educa- 
tion" published 

1647 A. D. — Abraham Cowley's "The Wish" published 

1649 A. D. — King Charles I of England executed 

1650 A. D. — Death of Rene Descartes 

1651 A. D. — Thomas Hobbes's "Leviathan" published 

1653 A. D. — Cromwell and his council of (Officers adopt "The 
Instrument of Government" 

1653 A. D. — Oliver Cromwell becomes Lord Protector of Eng- 
land 

1653 A. D. — Izaak Walton's "The Compleat Angler" published 

1656 a. d.— Sir Henry Vane published "A Healing Question** 

on the subject of civil and religious liberty 
1656-1657 A. D. — Pascal's "Letters" published 

1657 A. D. — Death of William Harvey 

1657 A. D. — Birth of John Dennis, English critic and dramatist 
1660-1672 A. D. — John BuNYAN in prison 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 459 

l66i A. D. — Birth of Charles Montague, Earl of Halifax, English 

statesman and financier 
l66i A. D. — Birth of Daniel Defoe, English novelist, author of 

**Robinson Crusoe" 
1662 A. D. — Death of Blaise Pascal 

1664 A. D. — Birth of Matthew Prior, English poet and diplomatist 

1665 A. D. — Birth of Lady Grisel Baillie, Scottish poet 

1666 A. D. — ^John Dryden's "Annus MirabiHs" published. It pro- 

cured for him in 1670 the Poet Laureateship 

1667 A. D. — Birth of Jonathan Swift, "Greatest of English 

satirists" 
1667 A. D. — Milton's "Paradise Lost" published 
1667 A. D. — Death of Jeremy Taylor 

1667 A. D. — Death of George Wither 

1668 A. D. — William Penn a prisoner in the Tower 
1670 A. D. — John Dryden appointed Poet Laureate 

1670 A. D. — ^John Eliot's "Brief Narrative" on the Indians 
published 

1670 A. D. — Izaak Walton''s "Life of George Herbert" pub- 

lished 

1671 A. D. — Birth of Anthony Ashley Cooper, third Earl of 

Shaftesbury, moralist 

1671 A. D. — Birth of Colley Cibber, English actor and dramatist 

1672 A. D. — Birth of Richard Steele, English essayist and 

dramatist 

1672 A. D. — Birth of Joseph Addison, English poet and essay- 

ist 

1673 A. D. — Death of Jean Baptiste Poquelin Moliere 

1674 A. D. — Birth of Isaac Watts, English nonconformist theo- 

logian, hymn writer and author 
1674 A. D. — Death of Robert Herrick 

1674 A. D. — Death of John Milton 

1675 A. D. — Birth of Ambrose Philips, English poet and drama- 

tist (supposed date) 
1678 A. D. — Birth of Henry St. John, first Viscount Bolingbroke, 
English statesman, author and orator 

1678 A. D. — First edition of John Bunyan's "Pilgrim's Progress" 

appears 

1679 A. D. — Death of Thomas Hobbes 

1680 A. D. — Death of Samuel Butler 

1681 A. D.— Birth of Esther Johnson, Swift's "Stella" 
1681 A. D. — Death of Pedro Calderon de la Barca 

1681 a. d. — William Penn obtains a charter creating him pro- 

prietor and governor of East New Jersey and Penn- 
sylvania 

1682 A. D. — Death of Sir Thomas Browne 

1683 A. D. — Death of Izaak Walton 

1684 A. D. — Death of Pierre Corneille 

1685 A. D. — Birth of George Berkeley, Bishop of Cloyne, Eng- 

lish metaphysical philosopher 



460 CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

1685 A. D. — Birth of John Gay, English poet 

1686 A. D. — Birth of Allan Ramsay, Scottish pastoral poet 

1687 A. D. — Sir Isaac Newton's "Principia" published 

1687 A. D. — Death of Edmund Waller 

1688 A. D. — Birth of Alexander Pope, English poet and critic 

1688 A. D. — Death of John Bunyan 

1689 a. d.— Birth of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, English poet 

and letter writer 

1689 A. D. — Birth of Samuel Richardson, ''the founder of the 

English domestic novel" 

1690 A. D.— John Locke's *'Essay Concerning Human Under- 

standing" published 
1694 A. D. — Birth of Lord Chesterfield (Philip Dormer Stan- 
hope), English courtier, wit and orator 

1694 A. D. — Birth of Voltaire (Frangois Marie Arouet), French 

philosopher 

1695 A. D. — Death of Jean de La Fontaine 

1699 A. D. — Birth of Alexander Ross, Scottish poet 

1699 A. D. — Death of Jean Baptiste Racine 

1700 A. D. — Death of John Dryden 

1700 A. D. — Birth of James Thomson, Scottish poet 

1703 A. D. — Death of Samuel Pepys 

1704 A. D. — Death of Jacques Benigne Bossuet 

1704 A. D. — Birth of William Hamilton of Bangour, Scottish 

poet 
1704 A. D. — Death of John Locke 

1706 A. D.— -Birth of Benjamin Franklin, American statesman, 

scientist and author 

1707 A. D. — Birth of Henry Fielding, English novelist 

1707 A. D. — Birth of Charles Wesley, English hymn writer 
1709 A. D. — Birth of Samuel Johnson, English lexicographer, 

essayist and poet 
171 1 A. D. — Alexander Pope's ''Essay on Criticism" written 
171 1 A. D. — Birth of David Hume, English philosopher and his- 
torian 
171 1 A. D. — "The Spectator** commenced publication 

171 1 A. D. — Death of Nicolas BoiLEAU-Despreaux 

1712 A. D. — Birth of Alison Rutherford Cockburn, Scottish ballad 

writer 

1712 A. D. — Birth of Jean Jacques Rousseau, French author 

1713 A. D. — Bishop George Berkeley's "Dialogues Between 

Hylas AND Philonous'* published 
1 713 A. D. — Joseph Addison's drama "Cato" appeared 
1713 A. D. — Death of Lord Shaftesbury (Anthony Ashley 

Cooper) 
1713 A. D. — Birth of Laurence Sterne, English author 
1713 A. D. — Jonathan Swift appointed Dean of St. Patrick's, 

Dublin, Ireland 
1715 A. D. — Alexander Pope's translations from Homer published 
1715 A. D. — Death of Charles Montague, Earl of Halifax 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 461 

1716 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Gray, English poet 

1718 A. D. — Death of Wilham Penn 

1719 A. D. — Death of Joseph Addison 

1721 A. D. — Birth of William Collins, English poet 

1720 A. D. — Birth of John Woolman, English Quaker preacher 

and social reformer 

1721 A. D. — Birth of John Skinner, Scottish poet 

1 721 A. D. — Death of Matthew Prior 

1722 A. D. — Birth of Christopher Smart, English poet 

1723 A. D. — Birth of Adam Smith, political economist and moral 

philosopher 

1723 A. D. — Death of Esther Vanhomrigh, Swift's "Vanessa'* 

1724 A. D. — Birth of Immanuel Kant, German metaphysician 

1726 A. D. — Birth of Adam Austin, English poet (supposed date) 

1727 A. D. — Birth of Jane Elliot, English poet 

1727 A. D. — Death of Sir Isaac Newton 

1728 A. D. — Death of Esther Johnson ("Stella") 

1728 A. D. — Birth of Oliver Goldsmith, English author and poet 

1729 A. D. — Birth of Edmund Burke, English statesman and 

orator 
1729 A. d. — Death of Sir Richard Steele 
1729 A. d. — Birth of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, German critic 

and dramatist 
1731 A. d. — Death of Daniel Defoe 

1731 A. D. — Birth of William Cowper, English poet 

1732 A. D. — "Poor Richard's Almanac" by Franklin is com- 

menced 
1732 a. d. — Death of John Gay 
^733 A. d. — Alexander Pope's "Essay on Man'* published 

1734 A. d. — Death of John Dennis 

1735 A. d. — Birth of Robert Graham of Gartmore 

1739-40 A. d. — David Hume's "Treatise of Human Nature" pub- 
lished 

1740 A. p. — Birth of James Boswell, "the greatest of English 

biographers" 

1 741 A. D. — Birth of Isobcl Pagan, Scottish poet 

1742 A. d. — Henry Fielding's "Joseph Andrews'* published 
1742 A. D. — Birth of Anne Hunter, English poet 

1742 A. D. — David Hume's Essays (first part) published 

1743 A. D. — Birth of Anna Letitia Barbauld, English poet 

1744 A. D. — Death of Alexander Pope 

1745 A. D. — Birth of Charles Dibdin, English song writer and 

dramatist 
1745 A. d. — Death of Jonathan Swift 

1745 A. d. — Birth of Hannah More, English religious writer 

1746 A. D.— Birth of Sir William Jones, English Orientalist and 

linguist 

1746 A. D. — Birth of Hector MacNeil, Scottish poet 

1747 A. D. — Birth of Susanna Blamire 

1748 A. D. — Death of Isaac Watts 



462 CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

1748 A. D. — Death of James Thomson 

1748 A. D. — Birth of John Logan^ Scottish poet 

1749 A. D. — Birth of Edward Jenner^ EngHsh physician and dii- 

coverer of vaccination 

1749 A. D. — Birth of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, German poet 

and critic 

1750 A. D. — Birth of Lady Anne Lindsay 

1750 A. D. — Samuel Johnson's ''Rambler" started 

1 75 1 A. D. — Thomas Gray's "Elegy Written in a Country 

Churchyard" published 
1751 A. D. — Birth of Richard Brinsley Sheridan, English drama- 
tist, orator, and statesman 

1751 A. d. — Death of Henry St. John, Viscount Bolingbroke 

1752 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Chatterton, English poet 

1753 A. D. — Death of Bishop George Berkeley 

1754 A. D. — Death of Henry Fielding 

1 754- 1 762 A. D. — David Hume's "History of England" published 

1755 A. D. — Birth of John Dunlop, English poet 

1755 A. D. — Dr. Samuel Johnson's Dictionary published 

1756 A. D. — Edmund Burke's Essay on the "Sublime and 

Beautiful" published 

1757 a. d. — Thomas Gray's "Pindaric Odes" published 

1757 A. d. — Birth of William Blake, English poet and painter 

1757 A. D. — Benjamin Franklin is sent to England to protest 

against the proprietary government of the colony of 
Pennsylvania 

1758 A. D. — Samuel Johnson's "Idler" started 

1759 A. D. — Birth of Robert Burns, the greatest of Scottish poets 
1759 A. D. — Birth of Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller, 

German poet, dramatist, and historian 
1761 A. D. — Birth of August Friedrich Ferdinand von Kotzebue, 
German dramatist 

1761 A. D. — Death of Samuel Richardson 

1762 A. d. — Birth of William Cobbett, English political writer 
1762 A. d. — Birth of William Lisle Bowles, English poet and 

antiquary 
1762 A. D. — J. J. Rousseau's "Contrat Social" published 

1762 A. D. — Death of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu 

1763 A. D. — Birth of Samuel Rogers, English poet 

1764 A. D. — Franklin petitions George III to resume the gov- 

ernment of the colony from the hands of the proprietors 

1765 A. D. — Samuel Johnson's edition of Shakespeare's works 

published 

1766 A. D. — Birth of Caroline Oliphant, Lady Nairne, a Scottish 

poet known as "The Flower of Strathearn" 

1766 a. d. — Oliver Goldsmith's "Vicar of Wakefield" published 

1767 A. D. — Birth of August Wilhelm von Schlegel, German 

poet and critic ; translator of Shakespeare 

1768 A. D. — Oliver Goldsmith's first dramatic attempt, 'The 

Good-Natured Man," produced 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 



463 



1768 


A. 


1770 


A. 


1770 


A. 


1770 


A. 


1770 


A. 


I77I 


A. 


I77I 


A. 


I77I 


A. 


1772 


A. 


1772 


A. 


1773 


A. 


1773 


A. 


1773 


A. 


1774 


A. 


1774 


A. 


1774 


A. 


1775 


A. 


1775 


A. 


1775 


A. 


1775 


A. 


1775 


A. 


1776 


A. 


1776 


A. 


1776 


A. 


1776 


A. 


1777 


A. 


1777 


A. 


1778 


A. 


1778 


A. 


1778 


A. 


1779 


A. 


1779 


A. 


1780 


A. 


1780 


A. 



1781 A. 



D. — Death of Laurence Sterne 

D. — Oliver Goldsmith's "Deserted Village" published 

D. — Death of Thomas Chatterton 

D. — Birth of James Hogg, Scottish poet 

D. — Birth of William Wordsworth, English poet 

D. — Birth of Sir Walter Scott, Scottish novelist and poet 

D. — Death of Thomas Gray 

D. — Birth of Sydney Smith, English wit and essayist 

D. — Death of John Woolman 

D. — Birth of Samuel Taylor Coleridge, English poet, 
philosopher and critic 

d. — Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's first important work, 
"Goetz von Berlichingen," produced 

d. — Death of Lord Chesterfield (Philip Dormer Stan- 
hope) 

D. — Oliver Goldsmith's comedy, *'She Stoops to Con- 
quer," first produced 

d. — Birth of Robert Tannahill, Scottish poet 

d. — Birth of Robert Southey, English poet and prose 
writer 

D. — Death of Oliver Goldsmith 

d. — Birth of Charles Lamb, English essayist and critic 

D. — Birth of Joseph Blanco White^ English clergyman 
and author 

D. — Birth of Walter Savage Landor, English poet and 
prose writer 

d. — Richard Brinsley Sheridan's "The Rivals'* first pro- 
duced 

d. — Benjamin Franklin chosen a member of the Conti- 
nental Congress 

d. — The Declaration of Independence adopted by the 
second Continental Congress 

d. — Death of David Hume 

D. — Franklin sent to France as commissioner for the 
United States 

D. — Adam Smith's "Wealth of Nations" published 

D. — Richard Brinsley Sheridan's "School for Scandal'' 
produced 

D. — Birth of Thomas Campbell, English poet 

d. — Birth of William Hazlitt, English critic and 
essayist 

D. — Death of J. J. Rousseau 

D. — Death of Jean Frangois Marie Arouet, called Vol- 
taire 

D. — Birth of Robert Surtees, English author 

D. — Birth of Thomas Moore, Irish poet 

D. — Richard Brinsley Sheridan enters Parliament 

D. — Birth of William Ellery Channing, American clergy- 
man, essayist and philanthropist 

d. — The surrender of Lord Cornwallis at Yorktown 



464 



CHROXOLOGICAL INDEX 



17S1 A. D. — Tmmanuel Kaxts "Critique of Pure Reason" pub- 
lished 

781 A. D. — Death of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing 

[/S3 A. D. — Treaty of Peace between the United States and 
QiEAT Britain, by which the War of the Revolution 
was ended and the United States recognized by Great 
Britain as a free and independent nation 

783 A. D. — Birth of Reginald Heber^ English prelate and hymn 
writer 

783 A. D. — Birth of Washington Irving, American historian, 

essayist and novelist 

784 A. D. — Death of Samuel Johnson 

784 .\. D. — Birth of Allan Cunningham, Scottish poet and gen- 
eral writer 

784 A. D. — Birth of Leigh Hunt, English essayist and poet 

785 A. D. — Birth of Count Alessandro Manzoni, Italian novelist 

and poet 
785 A. D. — William CoWper's "Task'' published 
785 A. D. — ^'Fundamental Principles of the Metaphysics of 

Morals/' by Immanuel Kant, published 
785 A. D. — Birth of Jakob Grimm. German philologist and writer 

785 A. D. — Birth of Thomas De Quincey, English essayist and 

miscellaneous writer 

786 A. D. — Birth of Wilhelm Grimm, German philologist and 
writer 

787 A- D. — Birth of Frangois Pierre Guillaume Guizot, French 

historian and statesman 

787 A. D. — Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's play of ''Egmont'' 

begun, published twelve years later 
787 A. D. — "The Fedeil\list," articles by Alexander Hamilton, 
James Madison and John Jay, begun in 'The In- 
dependent Journal,'* New York 

787 a. d. — The Constitution of the United States is drawn 

up at Philadelphia 

788 A. d. — Death of Charles Wesley 

788 A- D. — Birth of Lord B\tion (George Gordon), English poet 
788 A- D. — Birth of Sir Aubrey De Vere, Irish poet 

788 A. D. — Richard Brinsley Sheridan delivers his great speech 

at the trial of Warren Hastings 

789 A. D. — Washington delivers his first inaugural address 

789 A. D. — Nine of the thirteen United States ratify the Con- 

stitution 

790 A. D.— Edmund Burke's ''Reflections on the Revolution 

IN France*' published 

790 A. D. — Death of Benjamin Franklin 

791 A. D. — Birth of Charles Wolfe, British clerg>'man and poet 
791 A. D. — Birth of Michael Faraday, English physicist and 

chemist 
1792 a. d. — Birth of John Keble, English clerg>'man and religious 
poet 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 465 

1 792- 1 793 A. D. — Jo harm Wolfgang von Goethz takes part in tbc 
wars against France 

1792 A, D. — Birth of Percy Bysshe Shzlixy, English poet 

1793 A- ^- — Birth of Henry Frands Lytz, British fayrnii writer 

1793 A, D. — Queen Marie AxTOLStrit of France gmllodiied 

1794 A, D. — Birth of John Gibson Lockhabt, Scottish aodior 
1794 A- D. — The United States Treaty with the Six Xatioxs 

OF IxDiAXs concluded 
1794 A, D. — Edmund Burke delivers a nine days' ^eecfa in the 
Warren Hastings trial 

1794 A. D. — Birth of William Cnllen Bryaxt^ American poet and 

journalist 

1795 A. D. — Birth of George Darley, English poet 

1795 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Carlyle, Scottish essayist and his- 
torian 
1795 A- D. — Birth of John Keats, Elnglish poet 

1795 A. D. — Death of James Bos well 

1796 A. D. — ^Wa5hixgtox^s Farei^tll Adosess read in the Hoose 

of Representatives 

1796 A. D. — "A Letter from the Right Hox. Edmuxd Buree 
TO A Xoble Lord" appears 

1796 A. D. — Edward Jexxer makes his first experiment in vac- 
cination 

1796 A. D. — Death of Robert Bl'rns 

1796 A, D. — Birth of Hartley Coleridge, English poet 

1797 A, D. — Birth of Sir Charles hrru., English geologist 

1797 A. D. — Death of Edmund Bl'rke 

1798 A. D. — Jenxers First Treatise ox the S mall-pox pub- 

lished 
1798 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Hooo, English poet and himKmst 

1798 A. D. — Coleridge's "Axciext Marixer"^ pnUisbed 

1799 A. D. — Birth of Heinrich Heixe, German poet and critic 

1800 A, d. — Death of William Cowtol 

1800 A, D. — Birth of Thomas Babington ^LACAL•LAY, English his- 

torian, essayist, poet and statesman 

1801 A. d- — Birth of Sir Henry Lytton, Earl Bnlwer 

180J A. D. — Birth of Htigb Miller, Scottish geologist and 
writer 

1802 A. D. — Birth of Victor Marie Hugo, French lyric poet and 
novelist 

1803 A. d. — Treaty with Fraxce, for the Cessiox or Loltslvxa, 

concluded 
1803 A. D. — Birth of Ralph Waldo Emersok, American essayist. 

lecturer and poet 
[804 A. D. — Death of Immanuel Kaxt 
[804 A. D. — Birth of Robert Stephen Hawkzi, xltzUz r -et ar.d 

divine 
:8o4 A. D. — Birth of Charles Augnstin Saixte-Belte, Fr^zch 

critic 
805 A. D. — Death of Johann Christoph Friedrich Schllles 



466 CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

1805 A. D. — Birth of Sarah Flower Adams, English poet, author 
of '*Xearer, my God, to Thee" 

1805 A. D. — Birth of Hans Christian Andersen, Danish novelist, 

poet and writer of fair>' tales 

1806 A. D. — Birth of Elizabeth Barrett Browning, English poet 

1806 A. D. — Birth of John Stuart Mill, English philosopher and 

economist 

1807 A. D. — Birth of Lady Dltferin, Irish poet 

1807 A. D. — Birth of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Arrierican 
poet 

1807 A. D. — Birth of John Greenleaf Whittier, American poet 

1808 A. D. — Birth of Ray Palmer, American hymn writer 

1808 A. D. — Birth of Giuseppe ^L\zzINI, Italian patriot and writer 

1808 A, D. — Birth of Charles Tennyson Turner, English poet 

1809 A. D. — Birth of Edgar Allan Poe, American poet and story 

writer 
1809 A. D. — Birth of Oliver Wendell Holmes, American poet, 

essayist and novelist 
1809 A. D. — Birth of Richard Monckton Milnes, Lord Houghton, 

English statesman, poet and miscellaneous writer 
1809 A. D. — Birth of Alfred Tennyson, English poet 
1809 A. D. — Birth of Charles Robert Darwin, English naturalist, 

founder of the "Darwinian" theory of evolution 

1809 A. D. — Birth of Edward Fitzgerald. English poet, translator 

of the ''Rubaivat" of Omar Kha\yam 

1810 A. d. — Birth of Sir Samuel Ferguson, Irish poet 

181 1 A. d. — Birth of William Makepeace Thackeray, English 

novelist, satirist and critic 
1812-1815 A. d. — ''Kinder- und Hausmarchen," fairy stories by 
the Brothers Grimm, published 

1812 A. d. — Birth of Robert Browning, English poet and drama- 

tist 

1812 A. D. — Birth of Charles Dickens, English novelist 

1813 A. D. — Birth of William Edmondstoune Aytoun, Scottish 

la^^yer, poet and editor 

1814 A. D. — Birth of Frederick William Faber, English hymn 

writer 

1816 A. D. — Death of Richard Brinsley Sheridan, English orator, 

wit and dramatist 

181 7 A. d. — Lord B^^ron's first poetic drama "Manfred" appears 
1817 A. d. — Agreement between Great Britain and the United 

States Regarding the Xaval Force to be Maintained 
ON THE Great Lakes 

1817 A. D. — Birth of Henr>- David Thoreau, American author 

1818 A. D. — Birth of Emily Bronte, English poet and novelist 

1819 A. D. — Spain cedes Florida to the United States 
1819 A. D. — Birth of Arthur Hugh Clough, English poet 

1819 A. D. — Chief Justice John Marshall delivers his opinion 

in the case of McCulloch vs. Maryland 
1819 a. d.— Birth of Walt Whitman^ American poet 



CHROXOLOGICAL INDEX 467 

1819 A- D. — Birth of James Russell Ijowell, American poet, critic 

and scholar 
1819 A. D. — Birth of John Ruskin^ English art critic 

1 82 1 A. D. — Death of John Keats 

1822 A. D. — Death of Percy Bysshe Shelley 

1822 A. D. — Birth of Louis Pastel*r, French chemist and bac- 
teriologist, founder of modem stereo-chemistry and 
discoverer of cure for hydrophobia 

1822 A. D. — Birth of Matthew Arnold, English poet and critic 

1823 A- D. — President James Moxkoe promulgates his doctrine, 

the so-called Monroe Doctrixe, against foreign en- 
croachment and interference in the Americas 
1823 A. D. — Birth of William Johnson Cory, English poet 
1823 A. D. — Birth of Coventry Patmore, English poet and writer 
1823 A. D. — Thomas Carlyle^s first long work, "Life of Schiller^ 

published 
1823 A. D. — Death of Edward Jexxer 
1823 A, D. — Birth of Professor Max Muller, German-English 

philologist 
1823 A. D. — Birth of Ernest Rexax, French philologist and re- 
ligious historian 

1823 a, d. — Birth of Edward Augustus Freemax, English his- 

torian 

1824 A. D. — Birth of Sydney Dobell, English poet 
1824 A. D. — Death of Lord B^Ttox 

1824 A. D. — Birth of George MacDoxald, Scottish norelist and 
poet 

1824 A. D. — Birth of William Allixgham, Irish poet 
1823 A. D. — Charles Lamb's **Essays of Elia" published 
1825-1826 A- D. — Alessandro Maxzoxi^s masterpiece, the novd, 

''I Promessi Sposi" ("The Betrothed"), published 

1825 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Henry Huxley, English biologist 

1825 A, D. — Lord Macauxa\''s Essays published 

1826 A. D. — Death of Reginald Heber 

1826 A. D. — Birth of Walter Bagehot, English economist, pub- 

licist and journalist 

1827 A. D. — Birth of Joseph Lister, founder of antis4?ptic snrgcnr 

1828 A. D. — Birth of Dante Gabriel Rossetti, English poet and 

painter 
1828 A. D. — Birth of George MEREDfTH, English novelist and poet 

1828 A, D. — Birth of Hippolyte Adolphe Taixe. French historian 

1829 A, D. — Birth of Alexander Smith. Scottish poet 

1830 A. D. — Birth of Thomas Edward Browx. English poet 
1830 A- D. — Birth of Christina Rossetti, English poet 

1830 A. D. — L\*ell's "Principles of Geology^ published 

1830 A. D. — Death of William Hazlitt 

1 83 1 A, D. — Birth of Edward, Earl of Lyttox. English poet 
1831 A. D. — On the 27th of December Charles DAR%^x started 

on his famous voyage around the worid in Her 
Majest>-*s ship "Beagle* 



4S8 CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

1832 A, D. — Death of Sir Walter Scott 
1832 A. D. — Death of W^olfgang von Goethe 

1832 A. D. — Mazzixi exiled from France 

1833 A. D. — Browxixg's tirst published poem, "Pauline," appears 

1833 A. D. — John Henry Newman cooperates with Froude and 

others in founding the "Oxford Movement" 

1834 A- D. — Death of Samuel Taylor Coleridge 
1834 A. D. — Birth of William Morris, English poet 

1834 A. D. — Birth of James Thomson (B. V.), Scottish poet 

1834 A. D. — Death of Charles Lamb 

1835 A. D. — Birth of Sir Archibald Geikie, Scottish geologist 
1835 A, D. — First volume of fairy tales by Hans Christian An- 
dersen is published 

1837 A. D. — Birth of Algernon Charles Swinburne, English poet 
1839 A. D. — Birth of Francis Bret Harte, American author and 

poet 
1841 A, D. — Birth of Robert Buchanan, English poet and 

novelist 

1841 A. D. — Emerson's Essays published 

1842 A. D. — Birth of Sidney Lanier, American poet and author 

1842 A- D. — TrE-\TY BET\\'EEN THE CnITED StATES AND GrEAT 

Britain on the Boundaries Question, ratified 

1842 A. D. — Death of William Ellery Channing 

1843 A. D. — ^John RusKiNS "Modem Painters" (First volume) 

appears 
1843 A. D. — Browning's tragedy, "A Blot in the 'Scutcheon, 
is published and acted 

1843 A. D. — Death of Robert South ey 

1844 A. D. — Birth of Arthur O'Shaughnessy, English poet 

1844 A. D. — Birth of John Boyle O'Reilly, Irish- American poet 

and journalist 

1845 A. D. — J. IL Newman leaves the Anglican Church for the 

Catholic 
1845 a. d.— Poe's "Raven" published 

1845 A. D. — Death of Sydney Smith 

1846 A. D. — Thackera\''s ^'Vanity Fair" published 

1848-1849 A, D. — Mazzini returns from banishment to join the 
Italian revolution when the French besieged Rome and 
ended the Roman Republic 

1848 A. D. — Treaty of Peace betwzls the United States and 
Mexico, ratified 

1848 a, d. — Macacxay's "History of England" published 

1849 a. d. — Birth of William Ernest Henley, English author 

1849 A. D. — Death of Edgar Allan Poe 

1850 A. D. — The Fugitive Slave Act passed in the United States 
1850 A. D. — Thackeray-'s **Pendennis" published 

1850 a. d. — Death of William Lisle Bowles 

1850 A, D. — Birth of Robert Louis Stevenson, Scottish author 

1850 A. D. — Death of William Wordsworth 

1852 A. D.— Death of Thomas Moore 



CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 460 

1853 A- D. — Irish text and English translation of "The Battle of 

Gabra" by Nicholas O'KzAiiKEY first published 

1854 A- D. — Thoreau^s '"Walden" published 

1855 A. n. — ^\Valt Whitmak's 'Xeaves of Grass" pi:b!ished 

1855 a. d. — Thackeray's "The Newcomes" published 

1856 A. D. — Death of Heinrich Hei>t: 

1857 A. D. — Mazzini joins the insurrection in Italy fighting under 

Garibaldi 
1857- 1859 A- D. — Thackeray's "The Virginians" published 
1859 A. D. — DARwnx's "Origin of Species*' published 
1859 A. D. — John Stuart Mill's "Essay ox I.tbfbty'* published 
1859 A- D. — Death of Leigh Huxt 
1859 A, D. — Death of Lord Macalxay 
1859 A. D. — Death of Thomas De Quixcey 
1861 A, D. — President Lixcolx delivers his first inaugural address 

1861 A, D. — Death of Elizabeth Barrett Browxlxg 

1862 A. D. — Death of H. D. Thoreau 

1863 A. D. — President Lixccx-X^s Gettysbltk; Address 

1863 A. D. — President Lixcolx^s Pr(Xxamatiox of Amxesty 
1863 A, D. — The Emaxcipatiox Proclamation issued by Presi- 
dent Abraham Lincoln 
1863 A. D. — Taixe's "History of English Literature" published 

1863 A. D. — Death of William M. Thackeray 

1864 A. D. — Death of Walter Savage Laxdor 

1865 A. d. — General Robert E. Lee surrenders at Appomattox 
1865 A. D. — General Lee's Fare^stll to his Army 

1865 A. D. — President LixcoLx^s Secoxd Ixaugural Address 

1865 A. d. — T. R, Lowell's "Commemoration Ode** published 

1866 A- D. — President Johnson's Proclamatiox Declaring the 

IXSURRECTIOX AT AX EXD 

1866 A. D. — Death of John Keble 

1867 A. D. — The United States concludes a Treaty i^tth Russla, 

AxxExiXG Alaska by purchase 

1867 A. D. — Death of Michael Faraday 

1867 A. d. — John Stuart Mnx begins his **Al*tobiography" 

1867-1879 A, D. — R A, Freemax's "History of the Norman Con- 
quest*' published 

1869 A. D. — Death of Charles Augustin Saixte-Betjve 

1869 A, D, — John Stuart Mill issues his "Subjection of Women,* 

a standard plea for the rights of women 

1870 A. D. — Death of Charles Dickexs 

1872 A. D. — Death of Giuseppe Mazzini 

1873 A, D. — Death of John Stuart Mill 

1874 A. D. — Death of Fran<;ois Pierre GuizoT 

1875 A. D. — Death of Sir Charles L\*ell 

1875 A. D. — Death of Hans Christian Axpersex 

1878 A. D. — Death of William Cullen Bryaxt i 

1879 A. D. — John Henr>- Newmax made a Cardinal 

1881 A. D. — Death of Thomas Carl\"le 

1882 A. D,— Death of Charles Darwin 



470 CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX 

1882 A. D. — Death of Henry W. Longffxlow 

1882 A. D. — Death of Ralph Waldo Emkrson 

1882 A. D. — Sir Archibald Geikie's ''Geographical Evolution" 

published 
1885 A. D. — Death of Victor Hugo 

1888-1894 A. D. — Ernest Renan's "History of Israel" published 
1888 A. D. — Death of Matthew Arnold 

1891 A. D. — Death of James Russell Lowell 

1892 A. D. — Death of Walt Whitman 
1892 A. D. — Death of John G. Whittier- 
1892 A. D. — Death of Alfred, Lord Tennyson 
1892 A. D. — Death of Ernest Renan 

1892 A. D. — Death of Edward Bulwer, Earl of Lytton 

1893 A. D. — Death of Hippolyte Adolphe Taine 

1894 A. D. — Death of Oliver Wendell Holmes 

1895 A. D. — Death of Louis Pasteur 

1895 A. n. — Death of Thomas Henry Huxley 

1896 A. D. — Death of William Morris 

1898 A. D. — Annexation of the Hawaiian Islands by the 

United States 
1898 A. p. — Treaty of Peace signed between the United 

States and Spain 
1898 A. D. — Recognition of the Independence of Cuba by the 

United States 
1904 A. D. — Convention between the United States and the 

Republic of Panama 



cc 



E 



XCLOSED please find a list of 
selections from The Harvard 
Classics which I have prepared in con- 
sultation with Dr. Neilson for the use of 
boys and girls of from twelve to eighteen 
years of age, in answer to your suggestion 
of October fourth." 




SELECTIONS FROM THE FIVE-FOOT 
SHELF OF BOOKS 

For Boys and Girls from Twelve to Eighteen 

Years of Age 



VOL. PACE 



Aesop's Fables XVII 9-46 

Grimm's Tales XVII \y.2X2 

Andersen's Tales X\TI 237-38^ 

PToMER— r//r Odyssey XXII ^/ J ^ 

Virgil— r//r JEncid XIII 

The Arabian Nights. XVI 

The Song of Roland XLIX 07-208 

Robin Hood vt , o 

.p • ^^ 130-180 

Iraditional Ballads — ^r/rf/io;/^ 

dt pleasure XL 

AIalory, Sir Thomas— 7//r Holy 

..^'''^ - XXXV 109-226 

VOYAGES AND TRAVELS XXXIII 

Benjamin Franklin — Autobiog- 
raphy J 

John Bunyan — The Pilgrims ^^^^ 

^^'<^9rcss XV 5.324 

bHAKEsi'EARE— .Uartr/// and The 

Tempest , XLVI 303.442 

Thomas Dekker — r//r Shoe- o o *rt- 

maker's Holiday XU'II 447-r , r 

Plutarch's Lives XII 

Froissart Y VV\' 

. A A A V 3- 1 05 

Ambroise PARK—Journevs XXXVIII 9-61 

Manzoni— 7//r Betrothed XXI 

R. H. Dana — Two Years before 

the Mast XXIII 

Darwin — r//r Voyage of the 

Beagle XXIX 

Joseph Addison — T/zr risioit of 

^^''-^ XXVII 77-81 

473 



!*« 



SEUBTTTOVS FOR BOYS AVP niRLS 



^-MFTH — ofAr^^ "" C^mqm^ 


XVIII 


i97-a6o 


TheD.^. ..^ i^mift. 


xu 


5M-SJa 


- rinjL»-4riKm Tdl 


XX\T 


jf^-4ffA 


STRS — Hitmmmm mmi Dmrmik€m.. 


XIX 


.JJ5-43I 


MioKAD. Draviox — Afmc^mrf^iii 






Tht lirytnm Vmym^. 


XL 


aa6-a3a 


CowKft-^«fai Gifim 


XU 


559-5^ 


WoHOSVOKTH — MirkmH . 


XII 


6 jo-642 


- V WALTnt Scott — PiMwis 


XII 


755-774 


^c.wuvY — P#rm.^ 


XU 


94»^«3 


^OLJDtlDGK — TtU Amct^m: Jki^ruur^. 


XU 


698-71S 


Jxu^ HoGQ— JCAnnrr • . . ^ 


XU 


77'*-;«3 


Thomas Campwix — P^iwu «... 


XII 


785^1 


LoHD Bnosi — Thf Pnimmtr ^^ 






OMm 


XU 


821-831 


LotD Btbdn — The DtUfmUi^m rf 




cu^m^fJLfML 


XU 


804-805 
^»«J5 


Lm» BnoK — TW /jIty mf Cff»w. 


XU 


Thomas Moom P#fmy 


XU 


837-843 


Lkkh HiXT— .4»m Bm if Ana. 


XU 


»w-»w 


KEArs^T*^ Evr mf SL Agmes 


XU 


907-9»7 


TftxxTsm—Jf •rlr JTAwAmr 


XUI 


1019-1036 


Sir GdUmi 


XUI 


10316-103IS 








Ar^parflr . 


XUI 


iqX> 


The RnMw^' . 


x^n 


1041-1016 


Rrsnav— 5r9snr «W LXtj 


\X\1II 


95-168 


THAOEimAT — The Ead -^ ^^^r 






Plmt 


XI n 


1099 


RoKxr BwmxiAc — Hemr Thrr 




IhiBjM ike Gmi Xraes 


XI n 


1107 


SnsxET DoBOX — KwMmi mf KeiA 






•f ibmlrtM. 


XUI 


1 160 


DASm GAHtlC -. ^-l-' — 






Kim^i Tnmmdi 


XUI 


U0O-IS> 


WnjLXAX E. HcruT — Emg/kmd, 






Jf T fjMlMrf 


XI If 


1259-ufio 
u6«-ia66 




XUI 


r* « WtUrfmmi 


XI n 


vxjn-\2j* 



SELECTIONS FOR BOYS AXD GIRLS 



475 



VOI_ 



Henry Wadswortii Longfellow— '"" '"''" 

Poems VT Tj 

John G. WniTnER-Randoiph'of 1316-1414 

Roanoke YT tt 

John G. Wuittxzr- Barclay "of U16-1419 

Ury YT TT 

John G. WmTTiZR-Ti,e' Bare'foot ^424-1427 

Boy XLII 

John G. WniTTizji—The Pipes ai '43i-i434 

Lticknow XT TT 

John G. WiiiTTiER^'^a* rVa Va ^^^'^ 

Frietchie XLIT 

Oliver Wendell * Holme's— 7//^ ' M39-1441 

Chambered Nautilus . . . XLIJ 

Oliver Wendell Holmes — Old ^ ^^^^ 

Ironsides XLIT 

Sidney Lanier — r//r Revenge of ^ ^^'^^ 

Hamish XLIT 

Prank A. Haskell— r^r*5a//Vr'o/ ^ M74-I479 

Gettysburg XLHI ..y 

\BRAHAM Lincoln— 5'/)£'rc/t at Get- 

. ^y'^'^'d XLHI 441 

SELECTIONS— From Sacred Writings XLIV 
Some representation 

of each of the six 

religions XLV 



